+++
title = "Episode 0 - Into the Black"
description = ""
weight = 1
+++

Your name is Commander Ram Saetang, called Danny by your friends, and these have been the most stressful two weeks of your life. And you say that as a veteran of the Rosatom Suppression Campaign, where you spent months slugging it out with corpsec assets. But you weren’t in command there. Now you have to plan and coordinate a whole long-term patrol route. Even if the patrol is made of only one ship.  

As you’re judging the political viability of setting up automated supply stations along your route, you’re interrupted by a call from the berth where the Kingfisher is docked.

“Yes?”

“Captain Saetang, sir. Two deliveries for the ship sir, you’ll need to authorize them.”

Two? You’re pretty sure one is from the Interest, but you’re curious as to the other. 

“I’ll be down shortly.”

--

The berth is a utilitarian affair, a large staging area with high ceilings and plenty of room to maneuver vehicles and cargo. At the far end are several hatchways, some human-sized and some definitely for cargo and vehicles. Connected to those are umbilicals that reach out to the Kingfisher. In a SSD bay the Kingfisher could be brought wholly into the station, but out here she needs to be treated like a capital ship. A loading technician waves you over and you approach. 

Beside him is a nondescript man in gray overalls with a box about three feet cubed on a trolley. Silently he hands you a tablet with a cargo transfer notice on it. The source is listed as a recording studio on Earth - presumably Jackson Ncube’s. How on earth they got this through customs is beyond you, but there are clear links to appropriate forms signed off by officers throughout the Human Sphere. Incredible. You start the signing process, submitting name, password and biometrics and tell the loading technician,

“Get Lieutenant Fuchs down here. This is now his problem.” Turning towards the courier. “There a manual or anything with this?”

You get a silent shrug in return. You’re not even sure this man works for the Interest, so you leave him be. 

“What’s the second delivery?”

The technician points to the far corner of the berth where a cluster of engineers mill about near a group of emergency drop pods, the kind that are definitely used to drop mechs. You’re certain that the pilots’ gear has already been loaded though, and you don’t recall drop pods being on any of their requisitions.

But as you near, you think you recognise one of the engineers and you slow down. Blood pounds in your ears, your stomach tightens up and your heart carves out a position in your throat. Eyes that aren’t there, that can’t feel pain, ache all the same. They’re all in CDF mech engineer uniforms, grayish-blue overalls with rank tabs, and their undershirts, barely visible, are all black. 

When you get close enough, the one with lieutenant tabs hands you a plain white envelope. You cut it open and find two short notes within. Of course. 

“You can’t run from this.”
G. RS

“He wanted you to have it.”
KS

The eye ache escalates to splitting pain for a moment, like someone running a laser right across both your implants, if they could feel anything and you squeeze your eyes shut, putting pressure on them with thumb and forefinger. 

“Fuck.”

“Permission to come aboard, sir?”

You stare at the man, the other engineers behind him. Math runs through your skull, average repair times, the delta between a skilled engineer’s work and a skeleton crewmate’s. 

“You’ll work like the rest of the crew?”

“We prioritize repairs to our charge, but yes.”

“Where’d the pods come from?”

“Miss Saelim had no need of them, so shipped them along with us.”

“Great.”

One last glance up at the towering pods and chill runs down your spine. You can’t afford to turn these resources down.

“You know I can’t pilot anything.”

“Yet.”

On the one hand, you’re grateful that someone has confidence in your recovery. On the other hand, you wish it could be anyone other than them. Or the Saelim’s. The general’s ghost has long fingers it seems.

“Fine. Any work you do on it is done within… whichever pod its in. I’ll make sure a detail is posted so no one gets close while its happening. I doubt I need to tell you that you’re under orders to not talk about this. Welcome aboard.”

You turn and head back to your shipboard quarters. 

You’re going to have fucking nightmares about this.
