+++
title = "Episode 1 - Communications Problems"
description = ""
weight = 2
+++

Marshal Frederico Ayim stares at the piece of paper on his desk and thinks about what it means 

How Captain Saetang got a quantum bit communicator isn’t beyond him, exactly. He can certainly guess and could even press the matter and investigate. But he questions if he wants to, really. 

A sigh.

He knew that this posting wasn’t going to be the retirement he wanted. He just wanted a quiet bit of the Sphere to play his bureau-politico games. Harmless stuff, maybe helping a few people on the way. But that wasn’t allowed to come to pass. Instead he’s out here, in the midst of rising piracy and corporate expansionism, carefully arranging the pieces. Just like any game, but with more dire consequences.  

He crumples the paper up and drops it into a glass of water, watching it dissolve. He doesnt’ keep his keys on a tablet, he keeps them in his head and laboriously, manually decodes every message that comes through the QBCs for him. It’s a practice that’ll eventually become unsustainable, when the bandwidth grows and the messages become longer. 

But a two sentence report from a newly minted Captain? He’s still capable of that. A smirk crosses his face as he bangs out the gibberish that constitutes his encoded reply. A shame he couldn’t ask the General how he felt about his student’s trajectory now. Back on Trinikea, over rounds of Idiot & Bureau Chess he’d described the boy as “gunpowder without its spark” now that Saetang and his daughter had broken up.  

Ayim remembers the citations in Saetang’s proposal. He wonders about have lost the spark.

--

“Lieutenant Fuchs, let me start by commending your placement and rapid installation of the QBC.”

Otto Fuchs looks like he’s going to say something, then squints suspiciously at the captain. “Thank… you, sir?”

“You seem perturbed, Lieutenant.”

“Yeah. You’re starting with a commendation.”

“And that’s a cause for alarm?”

The lieutenant’s eyes snap to a boring spot on the wall. “Not… as such, sir.”

“It is a cause for alarm in the given context?”

“What context would that be, sir?”

A stretch of silence.

“How did you get into my quarters, Fuchs?”

“Used the keypad, sir.”

“How did you know the number, Fuchs.”

“Saw… saw you enter it, sir.”

Another stretch. 

“I didn’t mean to, sir, it’s just something you pick up in ELINT. ‘Oh, look, someone’s entering a passcode’ and shwoop, into the meatspace memory it goes, safely tucked away in case you ever need it.”

“I’m not sure breaking into my quarters to install a QBC counts as a ‘need,’ Lieutenant.”

“Look sir, we could have this on the bridge for everyone to see, see the workings of, have access to it, whatever. Or it could be in your quarters where you and me know where and what it is, and you and me have access, nice and safe, don’t worry about it.” The man’s speech had rapidly sped up and his accent thickened to where Saetang’s having problems keeping up. “Also, it was heavy, sir.”

Danny rubs at the skin under his implants. It was heavy.

“Alright Fuchs, I’ll come up with some appropriate disciplinary action down the line. For now, you’re assigned to So and your jobs are reclaiming as much data from that drive that we recovered as possible. I know it’s impossible to say when you’ll have some results, but try to have something within the next few patrol points.

“Now get the hell out of my quarters.”
