+++
title = "Episode 2 - Idiot Bureaucracy"
description = ""
weight = 3
+++

-- Too many years ago, and yet... too few -- 

“What did you call this again? Moron-?”

“Idiot Chess, sir.”

General Reginald Saelim rested his chin on his hands, which were in turn flat on the table. It gave him a very puerile, youthful appearance, no doubt encouraged by the hefty quantities of port the pair had been imbibing. 

He grinned, a motion that lifted his whole face up from its resting position and further contributed to the illusion of youth. As far as you could tell though, he was of an age with you. Albeit much more… spritely. Keener. Bastard.

“An apt name.”

He moved his knight to where your queen could, no, had to take it by the rules. In Idiot Chess, the idea was to lose as many pieces as quickly as possible to the opponent - to that effect, any “kill” or “capture” or “whatever” a player’s pieces could make had to be taken. It was an old variant, dating back to Canada in the Common Era and not many knew of it. Though it was markedly more popular in the CDF, as you were discovering.

You took his knight, not terribly concerned. In Idiot Chess, it wasn’t what you took, but what you forced your opponent to take. Top tier players could weave a network of choices that were basically tactical mirrors of classical chess maneuvers - carefully positioning pieces so an opponent had no choice but to chain murder their way through their pieces, leading to ultimate victory.

Halfway through setting Saelim up for such a fall though, you saw something change in his face. The youthful delight took on an edge and the grin turned from delightful to predatory. In the next three moves you went from dictating the game to desperately scrabbling for victory. When he finally had to take your last rook you slumped back in your chair, far more mentally wiped than you were expecting.

You gestured for some water (and another bottle of port besides) as Saelim straightened in his chair, rubbing at a chiseled and bare face with his head, nodding slowly. 

“That, General Ayim, was… well. I haven’t been that surprised since the Wars and this was vastly more pleasant besides.”

“Ha! Glad I could entertain you, sir.” You might be of a rank and age, but he was SSD and, more importantly, vastly more experienced than you. 

Still, he waved the honorific off. “Enough of that, Freddy. This is downtime, in the heart of… well, military luxury.”

A gesture took in the surroundings. A small but relatively luxuriant lounge on Khemrhet, it smelled heavily of old leather and paper, had dim lighting and altogether resembled more a speakeasy of legend than a modern officer’s lounge. The planet was big on wide, gently rolling plains and shallow oceans of water along its belt. Things got hairier towards the poles, but Khemrhet was basically a dream posting for SSD and CDF staff alike. Especially those retiring. 

Out of the SSD. Or into the CDF.

You gathered up the pieces and reset them as the water and port came. Surreptitiously you placed a small mechanical clock timer and a die on the side of the board as Saelim thanked the server. He noticed it immediately, and after a blank moment shot you a questioning glance.  

“I taught you Idiot Chess, Reginald, to teach you this. Welcome to the Bureau’s Game. We start playing Chess. Before our first turn, we roll the die - that is how long each of us plays Chess for. At the end of those rounds we must then play Idiot Chess, for a number of rounds rolled by the die. Rinse and repeat. Any questions?”

You watched his eyes widen as you explained the rules, the implications firing neurons haphazardly in his semi-drunken state. You could almost see his eyes vibrate in his skull as he tried to calculate the implications, but then he just burst out laughing.

He tossed back a glass of water and put it aside. Rubbing his hands together, he giggled like a boy and said,

“Alright, Frederico Ayim, let’s see what you’ve got for me!”
