+++
title = "Episode 3 - Dark Metal"
description = ""
weight = 4
+++

“Anything yet?” came the voice in his ear, under the squawk.  

“Oh my god, would you quit askin’ that? It’ll be done when it’s done.” Otto Fuchs drawls back, leant back in a spinning chair, listlessly staring at the ceiling. The damn drive they recovered from the Hearth Corp mining ship was proving to be difficult to reconstruct. Between physical damage and the wipe-job whoever had hit it with, Fuchs and his avian companion didn’t have a whole lot to work with.  

Sonorously-Sings-at-Sunset did a sideways shuffle along the back of the chair he was perched on and then flap-leapt to the console to peer at the human’s terminal. Head-cocking side to side, he watched the numbers go up, the cursor spin and the progress bar inch slightly towards “complete.” 

So came to the same conclusion - the drive was fucked. It wasn’t even a nut to crack, just a busted up shell. No data goodies left. He turned his attention to the human working “with” him, even though they basically did their own thing. The weaselly little man tossed a heavy pen into the air and caught it while leaning wayyyy back in his chair. Three things occurred to So in the time that it took the pen to arc back down:

One - That was a nice pen. He shouldn’t steal it.
Two - Otto was leaning back far enough that he could probably heave up under the man and tip him over. He shouldn’t do that.
Three - They were treating this drive like a piece of hardened military silicone, but it was from a corporate ship.  

“Hey, fucker.” Otto didn’t know how the raven made the translation software say “fyu-cker” but it was slowly irritating him. Ok, not slowly. It was seriously irritating him.  

“What.”

“Why don’t we just grab the matrix block headers and try to run a restore in parallel?”

“Because they’re rando-” The human sat up suddenly. “Huh.”

Obviously picking up what So was putting down, he cancelled the scan and pulled the drive out, looking for serial number markings. The outer casing was too badly damaged, so he looked about for a toolkit. So flapped up to a shelf, grabbed one and fluttered back down. In short order, they had the casing open and Otto was reading off serial numbers for So to search drive architecture information on. 

With the actual drive architecture in hand, it was trivial to figure out which blocks and sectors were actually repairable and the pair focused their efforts on those. The results were… limited. But they had something to go to the captain with now.

--

“So what am I looking at here.”

“No clue. Sir.”

Otto gave So a dirty look over the projector. In the briefing room before them a disjointed image floated, vaguely identifiable as a constructed spacecraft as opposed to, say, an asteroid. But the quality was abysmal. 

“Nooot quite. We know its dimensions roughly. Between radar, lidar and gravimetrics, this thing is huge. The size of the mining ship huge. Between that and the part and section IDs we were kinda able to reconstruct-”

“Kinda.” So’s voice now sounded very much like Otto’s big city drawl and the human let his head track slowly over to the raven, an expression of “you done?” clearly evident on his face.  

“Anyways. I’d give even odds this is another mining ship. The alternative is something else supermassive and those sound like ‘whooperharrier’ and ‘mattleslip,’ which, iunno about you, but don’t wanna think about the implications of a non-governmental organization having access to those things.”

“Mmm.” Captain Saetang nodded. “Anything else of interest?”  

“We can keep trying to pull more info from these IDs, see if we can’t make them match something, but the data’s in pretty rough shape.”

“Only one other thing, captain.” The raven ruffled his feathers. “The timeline… it might be corrupted too, but it looks like this thing dropped out of a wormhole and then things started going wrong immediately. Section breaches, massive engine damage…”

“They came out of the wormhole firing?”

An avian shrug. “Or right on top of them. Rammed straight out of the wormhole. We’d need better drives to tell. ”

“Hell.”

“Yup.”

Saetang dismissed them with instructions to finish running those IDs and then file a formal report. Left alone with the massive, disjointed projection he pondered it’s implications. Well, no one said this was going to be easy.

--

Dark. Dark and cold. 

There’s something in the dark. Massive, outsized. It’s got an intelligence, but nothing human. 

It knows you’re here, somewhere. It knows what you are, what you were. It’s hungry. 

A distant groan of metal, of actuators too stiff for combat use. A lie. 

So hungry.  

The groan turns to an ear-splitting screech and you get the impression of an onrushing train, howling on-

Danny bolts awake, phantom pain from behind his eyes stabbing into his brain. 
