+++
title = "Episode 4 - Jetsam"
description = ""
weight = 5
+++

“Report, Lieutenant.”

“Like the engineer said, ma’am. They’re Seedies. Two Ironsides out front, one dropship, and IFV and a small squad.”

“That’s not a standard configuration of… anything.”

“No, ma’am. Their captain in orbit identified them as ‘First Recon.’ A new division?”

“Must be. If they are actually CDF and not some ruse by a comp- another corporation.”

“You think that’s a possibility, Commander?”

“SecCorp pulled out of here for a reason, Ensign. Something’s going on.”

Her subordinates look at each other, visibly nervous.

“Do a weapons check and someone bring me a tablet that’s got connectivity with the external cameras.”

It was to get her subordinates’ minds off the mess they found themselves in more than anything. When she finally got a tablet, she flicked through the cameras until the ruins of the battle outside were visible. Two Ironsides alright. One a visibly different variant that appeared to lack a head. One Orc, missing a head for completely different reasons. Some smouldering wreckage that were unidentified vehicles. Probably the makeshift tanks the pirates dropped with. 

She could find no sign of the other dropship’s load. Was their dropship pilot a hotstick? Did they have air support? Too many unknowns for her liking. 

But the mechs certainly looked like CDF and their IFF checked out. She might be being paranoid, but at this point that was a safe position to take.  

Satisfied that the cameras wouldn’t show her anything new, she checked on the file filter. SecCorp had taken the labs and all their equipment off planet basically wholesale, but their security with regards to surrounding infrastructure had always been secondary. And people liked to talk. Dumping the entire file system of the research base would take far too long, but one of her pilots liked to dabble in systems - he’d come up with a search that should find useful files and information and grab it.

A few hours left. She wondered how to stall the Seedies. Or if she even needed to stall them. That certainly depended heavily on what they’d come here to do. 

Blue lips pursed, she thought about how they could figure that out. Their infantry was checking on the research staff so presumably they didn’t have much time. 

“Lieutenant, do we know the name of the CDF ship or captain?”

“Can find out the ship easily enough. The Captain’s one… Captain Saetang.”

With the meagre SecCorp civilian databases at her disposal, she gets to work.
