+++
title = "Episode 5 - Processing"
description = ""
weight = 6
+++
-- 
*An unused storage space near the brig.*

“I want them processed through here and exited through there. Timing is important. After the first prisoner, I want the in-processing door to open as the out-processing door closes. Can we, like, de-grease these doors? No, wait, only the in-processing one. I want it obvious when that opens.”

“Uh,” the tech offers helpfully.

I never thought I’d have to rely on theatre kid experience, thinks Xialin to herself. “Ok, fine, I’ll provide a script. Can the door be made to go louder?”  

He scratches his head. “Yeah, don’t see why not. Worst case I’ll sand off some carbon and sprinkle it in, but I might be able to just wipe the recess down.”

“Fantastic. I can set up the desk and whatnot. This will be a several day long project, but I expect you can return the door to functioning order thereafter.”

“Whatever you say ma’am.”

“Also! I need 1 volunteer in prisoner fatigues to do some acting. Real simple stuff.”

“Uh.”

--
*The hangar*

“Why do I gotta help the bird with the salvage, cap’n?”

“Because you did so well on the data retrieval, obviously.” 

“And not because of the quarters thing I pulled?”

“Maybe a little because of the quarters thing you pulled.”

“I’ll tell you what, sir, this is starting to get into cruel and unusual punishment territory.”

A squawk echos through the hangar and a large chunk of what used to be the ORC-1M’s head plummets to the ground with a clang.

“And possibly dangerous. Good luck, Fuchs. Stay out of my shit.”

--
*Near the brig*

“Next prisoner. And make sure the survivors from the Blood’s Breath are kept separately.”

Xialin, practiced in the art of seeing with her whole goddamn eyeball, watches the incoming prisoner. Watches him see the back of a prisoner he’s not familiar with vanish behind a sliding door. No real reaction yet. 

“Beginning outprocessing for subject Ground Prisoner 1. Name?”  

“Fuck yourself.”

“Fuck… Yourself,” she dutifully types in. “Interesting choice, but I guess no central government to stop you from taking that name.”

He looks annoyed at her boredom and lack of reaction. Looks around the room, takes in the guards in the corner and the massive raven snoozing on the back of a chair.  

“Date of birth, Mr. Yourself?”  

“I ain’t tellin’ you shit.”

“Suit yourself, Mr. Yourself,” and she has to kill the smile at that one. “This is all paperwork, I’m sure you have better things to worry about, after all. Birthplace, or is that going to be another set of expletives?”  

“I’ve seen enough crime shows to know I got rights. I’ma sit pretty until I get a lawyer.”  

“Oh. Oh no, Mr. Yourself, you seem to be mistaking your situation. This isn’t a civilian case and this won’t be going in front of the Celestial Court. You were caught in the act of piracy and attempted murder by the Colonial Defense Forces. This is paperwork for your execution.”

He goes pale at that.  

“Hang- hang on! You all can’t just decide that! We-”

“Actually, Mr. Yourself, we can. There are clear provisions for it. While the CDF does prefer to render pirates to the Celestial Court for trial, this mission is an extended one and we simply don’t have the resources to keep twelve pirates around for, oh, 17 more months.”  

“No way. No fucking way. You’re not- they said you all were uptight about all the legalese and, and…”

She has to force herself not to pounce on the “they” and keep her face a mask of boredom. No point in spoiling the game this early. She needed as many of them hooked as possible.

“Oh, we were. But somewhere around the sixth budget cut and two-hundredth pirate raid the, ah, brass as the sailors call them, started caring less about following that legalese to the letter and allowing captains to find their own ways around it. Hence why people like me are around.”

“Yeah? Wh- the fuck is you then?”

“A bureaucrat, Mr. Yourself. Just someone to tick all the boxes and make sure the captain has legal ground to space the lot of you, or however he feels like dealing with you.”

“Fuck! Fuck that, listen, I can talk, okay, I got dirt-”

“I’m afraid we don’t need any more dirt, Mr. Yourself. Your captain was quite forthcoming, presented with these same facts.”

“Fuck! That weaseling bitch!”

Bitch. The Captain of the Blood’s Breath was a woman. Xialin looked at the time on her tablet. 3 minutes and she already had more one more piece of information than she’d started with.

“Listen, she’s new, I been with the Banners for longer, trust me, I know more than her.”

Two more pieces.

“And we don’t really care, Mr. Yourself. Take him away.”

“Tommy! My name’s Tommy Ibrahim! I got info, you gotta believe me!”

As the guards usher him out, the inprocessing door screeches open. She watches Tommy cast a scared look over his shoulder as the outprocessing door closes. Watches the incoming pirate see the fear on his face. Watches him start to worry.

-- 
*The hanger*

So hops and flutters from component to component of the medium mech, doing a quick assessment of the damage, while Fuchs is kicked back on a folding stool in the remains of the cockpit. 

“Whaddya even know about mech construction, birdo?”

“I know shiny from broken real good, slowbrain. Besides, engineers are too busy trying to fix the crazy twin’s mech. I can save them some time on analysis.”

“Ok speaking of analysis, I appreciate that you got this data dump from...” Fuchs pauses to gesture at the dented and shattered mass of metal and electronics around him, “...this. But how come I’m the one trawling for info.”

“A) I can fly and fit into small spaces. B) You don’t do any work.”

“And goddamn, but I’m good at it.”

So gives a happy squawk that might be a laugh. Then he jams his head under an exposed armor plate near a chest-mounted missile launcher. The mess of wiring and feeding tubes is definitely ruined, but also looks old.

“Oh yeah. That’s fucked!”

“That your technical opinion? Christ. The Russian beat this thing over the head, course shit’s ruined.”

“No, dumbass, this was ruined before. Way before, looks like.”

“Whaddya expect, they’re pirates, they ain’t got good supply lines.”

==
*Days later*
==
*Near the brig*

Xialin twirls the pen between her fingers as the last pirate, barely more than a kid, fidgets nervously. The amount of data she’d been able to drag out of these idiots was staggering. Slowly something like an organization started to form round the name “Blood Banners.” She doubted a lot of the specifics, but too much matched up between the individual interrogations for her to ignore. The report to the captain was going to be something else.  

“Look, kid. Neil, right? Your buddies have given us plenty. I’m not saying they’ve sent you up river, but they’ve established that their cooperation has some value. They know stuff. Useful stuff. It’s not going to make the piracy and murder charges go away, but it helps, you know? So come on, help yourself.”  

“But apparently they’ve already told you everything!” the kid whines miserably. “I don’t know anymore than they do.”

Finally Nicklenock stirs from his perch, lazily spreading his wings, their span darkening the bland room not inconsiderably. One massive flap lands him on the desk, where his talons screech as they dig into the metal, crumpling and puncturing it. When she’d first described her plan to him, he’d called her a fucking grandstanding moron and immediately added his own ideas. Among them were not grooming properly, leading to a more ruffled appearance, dark keratin flaking off already impressive talons. Nicklenock was not a small raven, and Neil was a small human.

So when he leans in, Neil shrinks back into his chair. 

“Horseshit. Horseshit!” The shrill caw mimics human speech very well, and from point blank it’s incredibly disconcerting.

“I can’t tell you anything more!”

“Can’t?” she springs on the slip. “Why’s that?”

“She- she’ll…” Nicklenock’s feathers ruffle as he stands them on end, appearing to bulk out.

“Captain Durchdenwald didn’t survive the Blood Breath’s destruction, Neil, it’s alright.”

“Not her!”

“Who?!”
“Who?!”

Xialin and Nicklenock deliver the demand in almost perfect sync and poor idiot breaks.

--
*The hangar*

“Hey, birdbrain, you check the checksum of this data?”

“Yeah, of course it differs slowbrain. They’re pirates, obviously they’re gonna fuck with the settings.”

“Not just the settings, dumbass. A lot of underlying shit’s different too.”

So hops over to the bench where Fuchs has relocated after pulling the data. “Like what, smartass?”

“Iunno, like, look, for example. The CVI. It doesn’t match any published checksums. It’s not old or out of date, it’s straight up different.”

They open the Combat Vehicle Index and immediately notice the difference. It takes a few seconds to really process.

“Fuck.”

“You can say that again.”

“Fuck.”

“Get it all out.”

“Holy fuck.”

“Whoa now.”

BND-10
BND-15
BRG-20
BRG-25
RVL-30
RVL-35
MTR-40
MTR-45
BOU-50
BOU-55
AGT-60
AGT-65
COR-70
COR-75
MEL-CUST

--
*Captain’s quarters*

Captain Ram Saetang answers the chime at his door and to his surprise, finds two bird-beperched people waiting outside.  

“We have a problem.”
“We gots some problems.”

They look at one another. Oh boy.
