+++
title = "Episode 6 Outro - By Your Words They Shall Know You"
description = ""
weight = 7
+++
*In its immediate aftermath, it would come to be called the Battle of Segura. In the grand scheme of things, a relatively small battle between corporate, governmental and pirate forces.*

*Hindsight is 20/20 but often something viewed from 5 years in the future, is not nearly as accurate as one viewed from 200.* 

*There wasn’t a name for people like you yet.*

--

*The Battle of Segura  +00:00*

Multiple wormholes punch into realspace and what emerges from them does so firing. A swarm of corvettes, several frigates and a ship several times the size of a standard space station force their way into this reality and in one fell swoop obliterate all out-going traffic from Segura.

A voice like gravel scratches out across the broadcast travels.

“Hello corpo scum! You’re being raided by the Blood Banners. Please return all warships to a standby position and secure all your valuables for our immediate pickup!”

Her laughter is a mad and vicious thing, somehow everything one would expect from a pirate queen.

They descend upon the systems like ravenous birds of prey. A destroyer, slow to react and bring systems to full readiness is eaten alive by swarms of corvettes and spacefighters. A light cruiser hauls about to challenge the invaders, only to be speared through by an unholily dense barrage of missiles and projectile shot vomited forth from the colossal ship.

Another over the broadcast: “No one is coming to help you. And even if they did, we’d happily eat them alive too. Corprats, seedies, independents and all. The prosperity you’ve wrung from your people gets returned to them today.”

--

*The Battle of Segura  +06:00*

Director Daniel Suzuki watches helplessly as figures tick by. He’d been excluded from the defense meetings, his past insistence that they needed stronger ties with other corporations or the CDF now marking him as unwelcome. As if he’d say “told you so” at this point. This was all their lives on the line.

He brings up the personnel chart of Liang-chen Defense Forces in charge of each of the complexes. At least they haven’t mis-spent their money on mercenaries, relying instead on the costlier method of training up their own security forces. That training was paying off as their soldiers made the pirates pay for every block they took, effectively evacuating civilians where they could… and coldly leaving those to their fates that they couldn’t save.  

He buries his head in his hands. “I tried, Okatsuno. I tried.”

--

*The Battle of Segura  +14:00*

“Lieutenant Gureyevich… may I get your opinion on this blip?”

“Mmm?” The lanky sensor officer peers over his subordinate’s shoulder. “Roll that back for me.”

The junior tech rewinds the sensor data, and sure enough, something like a wormhole register spatters itself across the riotous sensor screen. 

“Anything out there?”

“No sir. I hit that entire area with an active scan within seconds-”

“How many seconds, Ensign?”

“Uhh…” A panicked note enters the junior’s voice. Red Banner officers were not ones you wanted angry at you. He finds his own logs and brings them up as proof. “Eight seconds, sir.”

“Eight?! Were you asleep?!”

“No sir! I didn’t want to enact a full sensor sweep in case that alerted LDF forces to our position, so I did some calculations to see where a ship might end up after exiting workspace and… that’s how long they took.”

“Mmm.” Gureyevich leans back. The tech screwed up, but his logic was sound. He’d deal with this later. “Make sure the Blood Banners are aware of a potential extra contact. Consider why you may have erred here and be prepared for cross examination later. Otherwise, continue, Ensign.”

Skin almost electric with fear and excitement, the ensign goes back to work, hyped that he may have caught something, terrified that he didn’t deal with it appropriately.

--

*The Battle of Segura  +14:55*

Director Daniel Suzuki puts back the crystalline chrysanthemum, folds up the little portable shrine. Lets the incense burn still. Carefully rises to his feet, picking up the small case and returning it to the small recessed shelf by his bookcases. 

Behind him, Segura Complex 2 burns. Colonel Yamazaki held well, but these custom mechs were running rampant over him. The BND-##s in particular outstripped any fast attack craft they could muster. And that blasted ORK-KUST was responsible for more kills against their mech pilots than they’d suffered in the past decade. 

From a desk drawer he draws an auto pistol. He’s trained in its use, but not particularly good at it. From a mannequin in the corner, he removes a sword, straps it to himself. He’s trained in its use and is… Well. Some families required more… rigour in traditional arts.

He’s about to leave and ask Colonel Yamazaki to put him to work when he notices a notification on his desktop. An orbital communication. Frowning he taps it open.

He sucks in a breath of air so sharp, it whistles.

--

*The Battle of Segura  +16:10*

Ram Saetang stands beside his command chair, head held high. This is it. His first real combat deployment since being made Captain of a ship. The few small skrimishes his crew had dealt with up until now were good for them. But he hadn’t been tested yet.  

His eyes ache with responsibility, with loss. A hundred, a thousand doubts flit through his mind and one iron will bulldozes them aside. 

“Prepare for descent. Crew to planetfall stations. Ground teams load into the drop ship. We breach atmo in three hundred and sixty seconds.”

A breath in. Eyes closed. Pounding red behind them. A voice, no, two voices screaming to do more.

Eyes open. Breathe out. 

“First Recon… drop.”

--

*The Battle of Segura  +16:30*

It breaches the cloud cover, wisps of white boiling out around the grey and blue hull like an inverse halo. The riot of noise that surrounds the war on the ground seems to dim as eyes look upwards as that dark shadow finally resolves. 

Seven hundred feet from end to end, ninety thousand tons of metal, all held up by ionic thrusters firing at maximum, the Colonial Defense Forces Frigate *Kingfisher* enters the fight for Segura Complex 2.

“Holy…” Colonel Yamazaki whispers, before realizing he’s on an open comm. “Uh! Captain Saetang, we have you on, uh, visual…”

--

*The Battle of Segura  +16:32*

“Drop hot, Boden, and godspeed.”

“Ayup, sir, you got it.”

Captain Ram “Danny” Saetang finally takes his seat at the helm of his undergunned patrol craft, now turned into a multi-megaton aerial support gunship. Looking at their newly minted pilot he asks,

“Ensign Richter, you feel up to a slow aileron roll so we’re firing all PDW’s all the time?”

The young man’s eyes widen and he gives a shaky so-so gesture with his hand.

“Fair enough. Hold us steady here for now. Sensors, what do we have for ground targets?”

“Sending to Guns now.”

“Comms, anything you want to add?”

Danny doesn’t look at Lieutenant Fuchs, but the casual slouch of the man in the otherwise rigid bridge is hard to miss.

“Nnnnope.”

“Anything you should add?”

The wiry Tri-stater gives a much maligned groan and sits up. “I GUESS I can clean up this data for yous.”

“Thank you, Fuchs.”

“Yah, don’t mention it. No, really. Don’t. I don’t need anymore commendations.”

Before long, Danny has a good idea of the forces assailing SC2 and has prioritized them. 

“Hold one tube in reserve in case we get a lock on this ORK-KUST, otherwise… *Kingfisher*, fire free.”

--

*The Battle of Segura  +18:10*

The mass driver SM04 completes its emergency realignment and an unmanned drop-glider is loaded onto its rails. The power of four fusion reactors under the mountain charge and then over-charge the rails of the mass driver, causing electricity to arc wildly above ground, frying surrounding material and causing an ear-splitting whine that shakes the teeth in peoples’ heads. 

Calculations complete and are rechecked and the moment everything goes green, the mass driver fires. The use of mass drivers as transport is so common now that people tend to forget they were Earth’s first weapon against the dark.  

At speeds that would liquify a human payload, the drop-glider is fired into space. But its payload isn’t human or even organic. Twenty four hastily printed pillars wrought solid of what metals could be found are released from the fragile craft as soon as it escapes gravity. They immediately start to separate under electrical and residual atmospheric pressures, turning the whole apparatus into an adhoc orbital shotgun.  

The former mining ship, hosting the pirate queen Concetta Amalfi, is suddenly blasted with the Buckshot of God.

--

*The Battle of Segura  +18:20*

“Hey, you. The fucking corprat bootlicker in the CDF frigate. I hope you’re happy putting off this shitty planet’s fate. The next time we meet, I’m taking your head myself and showing the whole fucking galaxy what happens to worthless career types that prop up this corrupt system.”

Captain Danny pointedly pushes the “respond” button on the comms himself. Lieutenant Fuchs, equally pointedly, routes the whole conversation to the system’s broadcast frequencies.

“Sorry, um. Who is this, exactly?”

The Segura system and its defenders make a noise somewhere between a cheer and a riot.

--

*The Battle of Segura  +124:30*

Marshal Ayim has read over the reports, parsed the data and made nice with the Liang-chen corpos. In a twist he would never have seen coming two months ago, one of the most popular corporate colonies in the Periphery wants closer ties with the Colonial Defense Forces. Offers of material, intelligence and communications are on the table.  

On the other hand, he’s also reviewed reports on home-grown pirate and perhaps separatist mechs. Not just ramshackle things, but production ready war machines that worked extremely effectively against corporate security forces. Which, he reluctantly had to admit, were the equal or better than their own. And that mining ship! The Blood Banners called it the Moon Eater and his own staff were struggling to come up with a classification for it. Impossibly, almost worthlessly slow in an active warzone, it bristled with weaponry that could make a battleship think twice about making a run on it.

On balance, it did not look good for the Periphery, but it could certainly look worse. He wasn’t looking forward to the endless meetings and breakout sessions this was going to kick off. But his eyes kept straying to the reports and data from the First Recon in Force. He flipped through the pages and eventually called up the footage from the bridge.

“First Recon… drop.”

He swallows, his throat tightening up at the bearing and the words. *Goddamn, Reggie. You raised something else, you know that?*

He watches the frigate turn orange during re-entry. Watches the shaky cam of an LDF trooper looking up at the relatively massive craft, its Point Defense Weaponry and turrets spitting fire in every direction like an all-points fuck you at the world. 

He watches. Makes note of timestamps. And writes his own reports.
