+++
title = "Episode 7 - Far Reach"
description = ""
weight = 8
+++

*At least the view is nice*, thinks Admiral Ballabh Kehar of Sol System Defense, stuck in another interminable appropriations meeting.This one, at least, is somewhat interesting. If he had to listen to more bullshit about relative costs of implementing the kinetically activated laser systems he might just airlock himself and hope that his ashes got somewhere near Sagarmatha. Peering out at the motley blue marble of the Earth could still make even the longest meeting sufferable. He watches the distant lights of an orbital train traverse the colossal lattice surrounding the planet and thinks that if this ever stopped bringing him peace, that would be his cue to retire.  

The droning of the colonel delivering the latest reports on the General Ultralight Discovery program is cut short by the door to the High Admiralty meeting room hissing open, admitting a very nervous lieutenant. *Heh, bubblegummers too smart for their own good. Never gets old.* A salute so crisp you could hear it down the hall and his eyes scan the room for someone. 

Lighting on Vice Admiral Bains, head of intelligence, the lieutenant rushes over and transfers a tablet to her, whispering. A nod, and then the old woman’s eyes widen. She stands and addresses the meeting. 

“Apologies, Colonel, your report will have to wait.” The pencil pusher looks unhappy, but knows better than to object. Poor man. Probably spent a week on it. “M’Col, my staff inform me that we have a unique opportunity to intake fresh battlefield data including deployment of massed, modern ultralight mechs.”

Everyone sits up at that. 

“Where-”
“Which corp-”
“How large was the-” 

She bulls through the interruptions. “The Liang-chen corporation holds a planet called Segura in the periphery. Two weeks ago, it suffered a massive pirate raid, on a scale we haven’t seen since the Corsairs were put down. The battle itself has… several unique and fascinating data points, but the ones of interest to us in this GULD hearing are this.”

A swipe of her finger across the tablet and a SSDI report begins to play on the holo projector.  

Within 5 seconds, Admiral Kehar takes up his tablet pen and begins taking notes. Two minutes in, he starts a second file where he tallies how many “what the fucks,” “holy somethings,” and general curses he and his colleagues utter. Only one “Jesus,” surprisingly and that was at the footage of the *fucking drop frigate*, a tactic no one had used since before the War of Coronand Extinction.  

He does it to distract himself. Despite being a veteran with real combat experience, he’d always been a soft touch. He blames it on the five kids and eighteen grandkids and spending far, far too much time with them. The footage of the Blood Banners ultralights hosing down crowds and infantry with bullet and flame is… a lot. By the end, it’s made better and worse by the footage of that old retrofitted Ironsides obliterating them in close quarters combat. The brutality of it reminds him of one of his sons’ vintage videogames, though the damned name escapes him.  

Notes from the Colonial Defense Forces Marshall that later reinforced and relieved the planet are included at the end and he pings Vice Admiral Bains for a copy of those, and the report if she doesn’t mind.  

The report ends with highlight footage, overlaid with quick analysis by SSDI.  

There’s silence for some time, and he takes the opportunity to collect his thoughts.  

“I don’t necessarily want to leap to any conclusions at the moment, but on the surface this looks like it will add fuel to the fire on both sides of this discovery program. In the interests of not leaping to conclusions, I suggest we all take this data back to our teams for further analysis. Things like the quality of these pirates gear, the defense stan-”

“Sorry, are we just going to ignore the fact that a pirate group have the wherewithal to set up a production line of advanced mechs?”

Admiral Kehar frowns and pins the general with a stare. “In the context of this discovery program, yes. The CDF is out there for a reason. Obviously those of us who need to worry about this will get their marching orders in due course. In the meantime, we should probably worry more about actually finishing the GULD program on time.

“Agreed? Excellent. Let’s adjourn to go over this new data. Or in my case, steal some time before the blasted Academy corruption investigation.”

A few winces, but no objections.

--

Back on Earth, in the remains of the Adarrat dome, a vlog from Ayim is waiting to be decrypted in his personal inbox at the end of the very long day. Over-full from dinner with his family, he is contemplating an aperitif when he hits play. He takes one look at Ayim, pauses the video and walks over to the liquor cabinet. Not the sherry, he doesn’t have room for a full glass in his old age. Some deliberation and he pours himself a fernet. He will likely need the wake-up kick.  

Making his way back to his desk, Kehar takes in the slouched form of his old friend, head propped up on one fist, staring frozen at him with a very unimpressed look on his face and a glass of something black in his free hand. Kehar takes a sip of the bitter drink and presses play.  

Ayim begins by taking a slow sip of his drink, closing his eyes to savour it and Kehar follows suit. This is going to be good. Over his speakers, the Marshall’s voice comes through clearly,  

“This fucking kid, I swear to Allah, *this fucking kid*, Ballabh. A mon-two months by the time you get this- a month ago this kid was slinking out of Perimeter station basically with his tail between his legs on a dead-end doomed mission. Now he’s hot-dropping frigates onto corpo planets *and they’re thanking him*. Why does every *fucking pilot Reggie* touched go straight from *hyper-competent problem child* to completely *fucking INSA-*”
