+++
title = "Episode 8 - Situation Normal"
description = ""
weight = 9
+++

“I’ll take it here,” Captain Danny Saetang says. Fuchs shrugs as if to say “not my problem” and sends the communique to the small projector mounted in the bridge of the *Kingfisher*. It’s an old ship, and a frigate to boot. The hologram isn’t great quality, but it doesn’t need to be. Marshal Ayim comes through clearly enough.  

“Captain Saetang, good to see you,” the older man says, returning his salute. 

“Thank you sir, and you too.”  

“I imagine so. Worried about a follow-up raid?”  

“Not without reason. The one other incident we have hard data on does show that to be their M.O. Data trickling in from other wildcats and strays is corroborating that.”

“I saw. Raiding like this hasn’t been seen… well. You were there when we put an end to it.”

“Aye sir. The Corsairs may have been altogether more skilled and cunning but these Blood Banners... “

“Heavy industry on a scale of corporations.”

“Yessir. If we don’t stamp them out *fast* we’re going to have something that makes a Corporate War look like a walk in the park.”

“I don’t disagree. I’ve kicked off a major mobilization of the CDF. Primarily aid-based at the moment, patching up and reinforcing all these colonies that have been hit, but we’re getting aid of our own.”

“SSD aid?”  

“Indeed. Also from corporations that believe Liang-chen and some from other Interested parties.”  

Danny’s ears twitch slightly at the capital I. 

“It’s a bit early in your tour for this, but it’s been an exceptionally *active* one, so how about a debrief and more in-depth status update.”  

“Absolutely, sir. Your ship or mine?”

“Let’s do yours. I’ll have you and your staff over when the *Acroterra* gets out here.”

--

The tour of the Kingfisher was a brief thing. It’s a small ship. Marshal Ayim seemed pleased at the way the inexperienced crew was carrying on, which was owed to Commander Reid bellowing over the comms about how ratings were expected to behave and storming through every compartment in half combat dress for spot checks. The Marshal winced at the tale of the missile tubes, applauded their one piece of salvage and asked after Danny’s staff by name.  

An interruption almost came in the form of Lieutenant Latfi, but Danny managed to signal her to exercise some patience. They retire to his cabin, where Ayim tales out two items from the briefcase he’d been carrying.  

“I’m sure you’ve seen one of these by now,” he says, placing a device Danny recognizes as a localized jammer from his Interest “interview.”  

“Sure have.”  

“This, on the other hand,” he uncaps a small bottle and looks around. “Have you got any glasses around?”

Danny provides a pair of regulation lowballs and Ayim pours a tiny measure into each. “This, on the other hand, I highly doubt you’ve had.”

“What are we drinking, sir?”

“Another gift, courtesy of the Interest. A little thing someone therein calls ‘Historic Mead.’ No idea why, it’s lightning made of honey. Real mead tastes nothing like this.”

“Uh-huh.” responds Danny, carefully tasting the stuff and suppressing a wince. Then opening his eyes as the flavour blooms spectacularly. Somehow he manages to remember to be suspicious of a superior officer offering high-test alcohol.  

It’s like Ayim can read him. “And there it is. General Saelim was a skilled teacher, but he taught none of you any subtlety or politicking.”

Danny shifts slightly, unsure of how to respond.  

“This tour of duty, Captain Saetang? You might be the first of his students to make flag rank if you don’t fuck this up. I know you worked with Kamon on this or cribbed her notes, but making this big of a wave, this soon into the deployment? You’re lucky your spending is so lean on this outfit and that you’re making powerful friends because there are people who are very unhappy with this progress.”  

“I don’t suppose I get to know who that might be, sir?”

“You’re not an idiot, you probably know at least one.”  

“Right.” Another sip a piece. “Do you really need an in-depth status update, sir?”  

“Do you need to give me one?” the Marshal counters with.

Danny takes a larger, perhaps inadvisably so, sip. 

A sigh from the old man.  

“You are going to have one hell of a target on your back. And I believe in this mission. It’s good work and you need to continue it, especially in the face of this… mess.”

“So we’re not deploying with… this aid?”

“No, you’re not. Maintain your patrol. Bring the light into the dark places, the good word, et cetera, et cetera.”  

“Can we… get any of this aid?”

“Working on it. Keep your nose clean, keep this quality of work up and you will absolutely get reinforcements.”  

“And if I need anything more immediate?”

“You have your new friends down there, yeah?” Ayim nods his head up and to the right and it takes Danny a second to realize that’s exactly where Segura is. 

“I’m going to be honest sir, I have an immediate medical need for a psychologist.”  

At that, Marshall Ayim puts his fingers to his temples and massages them. “Of course. Why not? Who is it for?”  

“A mech pilot. Commander duMaurier is probably making the request with your flotilla now.”

“Brilliant. Ok, tell her to knock that off and I’ll see what I can do. The last thing we need is for your mission to go sideways because of a CSR.”  

“And…”

Ayim rolls his eyes and knocks back the high-test mead. “Oh good. There’s more.”  

“We’ve picked up a defector from SecCorp. Says she-”

“The one who needs to speak to higher ups. Right, I remember. Well, I’m not about to deprive you of your new toy here,” he says, gesturing at the jammer, “So why not send her in. Wait for me in the hangar bay, will you? I’ll try to make this quick.”

Captain Ram Saetang stands, salutes and makes a call for Lieutenant Latfi.

--

Marshal Ayim dismisses Lieutenant Latfi and stares at the door for a while. Stares at the bottle of mead he was going to leave Captain Saetang. Considers sliding it into his pocket for later tonight. Decides against it.  

He gets up and makes his way to the hangar. Walking more slowly than is his wont. He keeps his back straight and his eyes ahead, the model of a flag officer, even in the CDF. But by the Prophet does he feel old now.  

He meets Saetang at the foot of his shuttle, returning his salute but not before taking in the large space. Three mechs, a few vehicles, a few drop pods, one drop ship and a single aerospace fighter. More had been done with less, but not in recent memory. He considers the technicians by the drop pods and wonders where he’s seen them before. 

“I’m confirming Lieutenant Latfi’s commission and bumping her up in seniority. Promote her to lieutenant commander when you see fit, Captain Saetang.”

“Understood, sir. Is there-” The young man cuts himself off and Ayim nods his approval.

“You get it. No, nothing further to disclose. You’ll find out in due time, or figure it out yourself.”

“Aye, sir.”

“Very well, Captain. I’m very pleased with the ship and mission you’re running here. My report to the Colonial Board will reflect that, in detail. Good luck in the future.”

Salutes are exchanged, and Marshal Ayim makes his way back up into the shuttle, wondering how the hell he’s going to prepare the Periphery for this.  

--

Somewhere in the black he remembers where he’s seen at least one of the technicians before and sits bolt upright.  

“Kamon Saelim, you lying... *daughter of your father.*”
