+++
title = "Episode 9 - Warsmith"
description = ""
weight = 10
+++

*Dark. Dark and cold.*

*There’s something in the dark. Massive, outsized. It’s got an intelligence, but nothing human.*

*It knows you’re here, somewhere. It knows what you are, what you were. It’s hungry.* 

*A distant groan of metal, of actuators too stiff for combat use. A lie.* 

*So hungry.* 

*This again. This time you’re slightly more ready, slightly more aware. Something raises from your unconsciousness, wrapping your naked mindform in… armor? No. Not armor. Wrappings. Hands. Feet. You get the modesty of shorts.Tightening your fist, you can feel the pops travel from your finger tips up to your wrist with the flex of muscles. You bounce on your toes, springy leg muscles easily absorbing it but tarsals and phalanges shifting and grinding with disuse.* 

*In the distance, something screams.* 

*You scream back.*

--

The assault on Segura Complex 2 was a clinical, street-by-street sort of deal. His crew took solutions and directions from Colonel Yamazaki and bombarded sections of the city until pirates broke cover and took pot shots at targets of opportunity. The fight at the mass driver, though, that was a feat of skill, desperation and luck.  

Danny watches as Britta and Sascha square off against the heavier, vastly more advanced Melior. Where their shots slough off armor, two blasts from the heavy mech nearly take Sascha’s legs off where they stand. The pilot is good. Not top tier, like many Danny’s met, but a capable fighter. But between So’s hacking, Britta and Sascha’s training and the perils of internal ammunition, the Melior gets worked over, eventually resorting to its completely overpowered jump jets to clear the fight, taking Britta with it.  

He puts the berserker woman out of his mind for now - she’s Commander duMaurier’s problem for the foreseeable future. He focuses on Sascha’s footage, the way he charges, dumps mags into the ultralights and dismembers them like a butcher. He takes notes.  

He makes a call to the techs in the hangar, then to Sascha.

“Sokolov, to the hangar.”

--

The big man ducks through the hatch into the largest compartment on the ship. 

“You wanted to see me, keptain?” 

Alexandr Sokolov is no one’s fool and when he sees Captain Saetang in a pilot suit he knows something is up. His captain gives him a once over, mechanical eyes gleaming dully in the bright hangar lights. 

“Common human sphere doctrine holds that “melee” combat is a position of last resort,” the captain eventually states. “But I like to think that I know better, and you’re learning the same for yourself.”  

Sascha thinks on that a while, not sure how he’s supposed to answer. “Learning?”

He liked to think he was a pretty good brawler.  

“Yeah. Your aim still sucks. You have the instinct for CQC maneuvers, but no training, no finesse. Neither the CDF nor the SSD really teaches those. ”  

“Well, I like to think I handled that heavy-”  

“Had you not hit its ammo reserves, the Melior would have taken you and Britta to pieces. Regardless of your skill, its weight and purpose-built melee actuators gave it an almost insurmountable advantage.”  

“...”  

“...Come on. Let’s throw down.”

--

The ORC-1M isn’t a familiar machine to him, not in a piloting sense. But the Corsairs had been fond of them, and he’d learned how brutal the chest-mounted rocket launchers could be in CQC. A lesson the SSD was fond of forgetting.  

He teaches it to Sokolov, shows him what riding the red line in melee combat looks like. The Shin-Ryuken is turning into a formidable mech, but it either needs more guns or Sascha needs to push it harder. 

Linked as they are over a hard connection, the simulation can be fast, and brutal. It’s not over as quickly as he expects, but the speed of the fights is obviously shocking to Sokolov. The worst he suffers is a destroyed hand actuator, foolishly testing it against the Shin-Ryuken’s own gleaming fist.  

Afterwards, the huge man slides out of his cockpit, pouring sweat and looking like he’d actually been in a fight. Danny’s not in great shape either, swearing quietly as he pries his hands off the unfamiliar controls. He can’t straighten up in this tiny cockpit, and his screaming back muscles suggest maybe that’s not such a loss. By the time he manages to exit, feeling has returned to his legs and he’s able to dismount. 

Sokolov looks at with an expression of respect, anger and more than a little uncomfortableness. Danny claps his arm on the way past.  

“The beatings will continue until your skill improves.”

--

Commander duMaurier is waiting for him outside his office with their new shrink, one Dubrovkah Anna Hjeim. He suppresses a sigh and checks his watch. He’s not a fan of the idea of sharing the tight confines of his quarters with two women while he probably reeks of sweat. Not really enough time left in this shift for a shower either, depending on how long this report is.  

“Am I to understand by your presence here that you’re done your diagnostics already, Dr. Hjeim?” 

“Yes, keptain. You were fortunate to be assigned me - the work of my graduate supervisor revolved around similar cases.” Holy hell her accent’s thicker than Sokolov’s. 

“Wonderful. Well, come on in. No point dragging this on.”

Inside, he offers the doctors some bia hoi he’d managed to get So to scrounge. The bird returned with second-hand commentary on his alcohol choices, but he returned with some nonetheless. Seeing duMaurier accept, Dr. Hjeim follows suit. 

“So, what’s the word, doc?”

“Britta Andersen is suffering from neurohelm induced hyperaggressive disequilibrium.” 

A blink. “That’s… a thing? Neurohelms aren’t new technology, they’re a thoroughly tested one. I think I’d have heard of negative side effects.”

She nods in understanding. “They’re thoroughly tested on stable, healthy people. For obvious reasons. I have forwarded you the details of my research - my supervisor and my’s research - but the teal deer is that in people already suffering from trauma - particularly ones with maladaptive coping mechanisms, the stress of the mental connection amplifies or in some cases wholly supplants their coping mechanisms. 

“From your report on her brother’s statements, it appears that Britta and he carry some baggage. Their chosen method of dealing with that, combat, is maladaptive to begin with - in Britta’s case it is further complicating her mental health.”

“Wonderful.” Danny rubs the bridge of his nose. “What’s your recommendation then, Dr. Hjeim.”

“Obviously it would be to put her on extended leave and ship her back to a base capable of caring for her mental state. But I take it that is not an option.”

“Not really. We’re short on personnel as it is. And Britta leaving would inevitably result in Boden leaving as well. And then we’d *really* be fucked.”

“Commander duMaurier advised me that such might be the case. I will be registering my report and recommendations with Medical Command, of course, but in the meantime, there are mitigating actions that can be taken. Moving her to a non-mech combat role is the obvious one. There are experimental drugs that are being developed - with her consent we could enroll her in the trials, which I am conveniently capable of administering. The former would have the most immediate effect, and the latter carries the risks of unforeseen side-effects or… just not working.”

“Captain, I’d like to register my recommendation that you move her off mech duty. It will take some time, but we can fab a medium tank well enough, or claim one down the line.”  

“A reactor for a medium tank is a *months-long* project in an ad-hoc environment, Commander.”

“So use a fuel cell instead. We’re not doing extended deploys, its power is more than sufficient. In case it's not, carry some spares in the drop ship.”  

Danny frowns, staring at the suddenly remarkably militarily perspicacious Commander duMaurier. *Remember Danny, she* is *military, even if her specialization isn’t combat*. It’s not a terrible idea. The fabbing time would come down to some weeks - they could remount the weapons, shaving some more time off. Salvage could further reduce the time.  

“I’ll think on it, but that’s a good idea, thank you Commander. And you Dr Hjeim. Dismissed.”

--

It's deep into the night shift when Danny finally gives up on sleep and hauls himself out of bed. He aches, muscles that haven’t been used in months complaining from even that short training session in the cockpit. So he does what he’s always done, what he always used to do. Pops a painkiller and heads down to the hangar. 

It’s nearly empty, their skeleton crew not really allowing for full staffing of the hangar around the clock. But in the corner, by the drop pods, he spots a technician, sitting cross legged on a crate, pouring over a book. Captain Saetang approaches, and sure enough, it’s the lieutenant.  

The man looks up. Doesn’t salute.  

“How’d you know I’d be down here?”  

A shrug. “We didn’t. But we keep a guard nightly. This is just my shift.”  

“Wonderful.” A twinge behind his eye. “Pop the hatch, will you? I’m slipping and could use the practice.”  

“No.” He says. 

“No? I thought you all *wanted* me to pilot this thing.”

“You’re obviously out of shape, physically and mentally. You have no idea of its capabilities. Letting you even into a simulation at this juncture would be irresponsible.”  

Danny tamps down on the rising anger. He’s got a point.  

“What’s your name, Lieutenant?”  

“Black, sir.”

“Of fucking course it is.”

A small smile. “A coincidence, I promise.”

“Well then, Lieutenant Black, I guess I’ll go work out and meditate or whatever and see you some other time then.”

He nods, but motions for his captain to his. Unfolds his legs and stands up off the crate. With a *whump* that sounds louder than it should be, he closes the book and hands it Danny. 

“This is yours now, too.”  

It’s a thick, bound thing. It was likely designed to be a journal at some point, but that’s not what the cover says, not what ownership of it implies. Between its covers are equipment lists, technical data, experiments and musings. Danny knows this, because General Saelim showed him a little of it. Showed a kid a little piece of a history, on a late evening in Thailand.

*The Manual of Operations and Arms.*

He stares for a bit then looks up at the drop pod.  

“Pop it open, just for a bit. I want to at least look at this thing.”

The lieutenant pauses, then nods, popping a maintenance hatch for him to duck through into the interior of the pod. Low red emergency lights come on inside the pod, doing nothing for the atmosphere of… danger, of oppression that hits Danny as soon as he ducks in.  

A deep breath, and he looks up at a monster out of legend.

