+++
title = "Episode 10 Outro - Cultivar"
description = ""
weight = 11
+++

The universe is cold and dark, and much of it appears empty. Even more of it appears empty but is not, on parareality level. And a very small portion of that which looks empty  is not and instead hides things that should not be found. The Wandering Remnant makes its home here, despite the things that hide here themselves.  

In the great vastness of the void, it is unlikely that these dwellers in the dark should ever meet, and very easy for them to see each other coming. Closer to the inhabited spaces, less so. 

So great Wandering Worlds drift silently through the black, sipping on dark energy in meditative stillness. They watch, listen through parareal strands that connect them to the Material Systems they’ve left behind.

They watch, they listen. Centuries, millenia may pass before one stirs to make contact with a people it has been watching. By collective accord they’ve agreed that no such contact must come before a people are able to leave their home system, but how to interact with them is a judgement left to individual Remnants.  

Calculated, impassive trade & preservation is common. But so is a thing not quite sentimentality, not quite affection. A sense that these people deserve better and a notion of obligation.

Being a remnant of something is hard.  

--

They have names for you. Appellations, they call them, and they hold them close to their chests. They watch you nearly destroy yourselves once, twice over. They watch you spin orbital cities from steel and glass, take the fate of a planet into your hands and say “No.”

They watch you burrow through reality and parareality like a parent watching baby’s first steps, and then they say hello.

Their appellations for your grow, eve more once you meet the Hauberi-Coronand. Even more when you wipe them from the universe. 

They wonder at your growth, outstanding but not unfamiliar. The dark encroaches, budding madness, but it does not take hold, not the same way as it does for others. Your small wars predation and exploitation wipe it out before it has a chance to take hold. Your fears stay sane.  

Then they feel your split reality to speak and something else does too.

--

A great cacophony of voices that are not voices ring through the solid not-metal of the Wandering World.  

“The Eager Explorers have met the Eater of Worlds.”

“Do we tell them?”

“We must.”

“There is no ‘must,’ simply collective will.”

“Telling them will give them a chance.”

“A chance at survival.”

“Their survival is our enrichment.”

“Our enrichment is terminal. Is their survival to the universe’s enrichment?”

“The possibility is self-evident. Give them a chance and let the seed sprout.”

“The denial of possibility is surrender to the void. Yes, tell them.”

“Tell them.”

“Tell them.”
“Tell them.”
“Tell them.”
“Tell them.”

“We shall tell them.”

--

They tell you. 
