+++
title = "Episode 11 Outro - End Of Act 1"
description = ""
weight = 12
+++

It’s one of the last shuttles down to the surface of Sunnydown and Commander duMaurier hurries to catch it. She’s been working the refugee camp projects all week and holy hell is she in need of a night out. Stuck in a tiny frigate medbay with Dr. Hjeim can grate on even the most gracious. The woman’s competent, but has a strange sense of humor and a worse one of distance. She gets to the shuttle’s ramp as the last of this run are loading up. 

A raven’s head cocks around to stare at her, and presently Xialin Liu turns as well. 

“Catherine. Good to see you’re getting some time off.”

“Xialin. Nickenock. Yeah, gotta take my own advice or *some* workaholics never listen.” She doesn’t have to say who she’s talking about. 

“We’re heading for a silver screen. There’s a new Blackmech flick so of course Sunnydown has it. Want to come?”

duMaurier makes a face. “Hard pass. Last thing I need now is more violence and slaughter.”

“Oh, but this one’s a c-drama adaptation.”

“I have no idea what that means.”

“Less ‘mad AI on a rampage’ and more ‘unfairly attractive people stare at each other between completely over-the-top-kung-fu fight scenes.’”  

“Mmm, slightly more tempting, but I think I’ll stick with ‘fairly attractive people in bars’ tonight, thanks.”

Xialin rolls her eyes good naturedly. “I tried, I tried.”  

“And learned the most important lesson of all. Never try.”  

“Heh. Which bar are you staking out? Might come find you after the movie.”  

“Hmm, haven’t really decided.” She takes out a small tablet and sits next to the diplomat. “Want to help me decide?”

--

Admiral Ballabh Kehar stares out over the Himalayas from his dirtside office. Their cold majesty was something he took pains to remind himself of. Up high in the SSD stations orbiting Earth it was easy to think of oneself as above it all. Sometimes you had to be a small man, in a small village, with mountains older than human history ensconcing you. It pays to stay humble, he’s found. So have certain of his colleagues.  

He watches a small ionic air car touchdown at this compound’s landing pad, watches security go over it diligently before letting its occupants disembark.  

He knows this will be seen as some kind of favoritism, but those rumors will likely be done away with shortly. The damn girl deserves some kind of recognition for her efforts.

A short, stocky white woman in an academy uniform gets out of the car, flanked by the lieutenant he sent to pick her up from Tribhuvan when she arrived. Her strawberry blonde hair, in its enormous curls, bobbs faintly in the cold mountain wind and she exhibits a single, full-body shiver. He notes her subsequent stillness, as if gathering herself up. But as the lieutenant moves towards the house, her head turns in his direction and she follows.  

Presently, she’s shown into his office and snaps a sharp salute. 

“Cadet Jennifer Fenwick, reporting as ordered, sir!”  

“At ease, Cadet.”

As she relaxes a touch, he can’t help but be struck by how young she is. He knows that due to her disability she was only able to join the Academy at a later date than most. Still, if you’d told him she was of an age with his granddaughters, he wouldn’t have doubted.  

“I’m sure you’re wondering why you’re here, Cadet.” He almost holds a hand up to forestall an answer, but then remembers himself. Instead, he bulls on forward. “It can’t be done publicly for stupid political reasons, at least until this whole mess has calmed down somewhat, but there are elements of the Admiralty, even High Admiralty, that believe you deserve an apology. And thanks.”  

“That’s not necessary, si-”  

“I’ll decide what’s necessary, thank you, Cadet.” he says, not unkindly. Unlike his daughters she goes bright red in embarrassment. Ha!

“So. Please accept the Admiralty’s apology for your ill-treatment during your time at the Academy. Your work is being reviewed, even though your performance during finals speaks for itself. I have no doubt you’ll be graduating with honors.”

She inhales sharply, but otherwise maintains control. Graduation with honors means fast-tracking through officer progression. 

“Sir! Thank you, Sir!”  

“It’s you who deserve our thanks, Cadet. Exposing corruption at that level, at the probable cost of your career? That’s fine, courageous work. Any military should be proud of such officer-cadets.” 

He moves behind his desk and sits. Unsure of how to offer it, he again bulls through, treating her as normal. “There’s a seat to your right, please, have it.”

He hand goes out, grasps the back of it unerringly and she seats herself, still properly ramrod straight. Impressive. Jennifer Fenwick is, after all, completely blind.  

“As to your thanks, Cadet, tell me… have you heard of Recon-in-Force?”  

Her eyes may be shut, but Admiral Kehar can feel her attention on him.

--

It’s been a long day dealing with Sunnydown and the Bureau. As functional head of the entire CDF in this region he was well within his rights to order this mobilization. But Marshal Ayim had definitely been expecting more pushback, fewer resources. This latest ‘Eater of Worlds’ crisis has, however, allowed the other shoe to drop. Those resources were coming to the CDF anyways, albeit over a longer period of time. Now he has to actually dig in and fight for what they need to keep this part of the Sphere safe. Or at least habitable.  

He’s about to turn in for the night when his quantum communicator dings. Of course, it never ends. Wearily, he goes over to see what new emergency has sprung up now. 

It’s not an emergency. The message is even in plaintext. 

Just calling ahead to let you know we’ll be in system shortly, Ayim dear. 

He stares at the comms unit for a good minute, his stomach full of butterflies but also dread, trying to decide what to do. In the end, he puts on his jacket, ruffles his hair into something like shape, and goes to find some fucking coffee. Maybe he’ll be lucky and a barista will be in the mess. 

When he enters the bridge, his comms officer looks up in surprise. “Oh, good timing, sir. A civilian craft is hailing us on your priority band. It’s-”

“The *Templeton*.”

A pause as the bridge crew stare at him. “Uh. That’s right, sir. How did you-”  

“She phoned ahead,” Ayim grimaces, taking a sip of coffee. “Clear her for planetfall if she wants and put her through to me in my quarters if she calls. Requests to board are denied.”

Maybe Elshara Bivvek can magic them a second fleet, or a galaxy-class station full of resources. 
