+++
title = "Episode 12 Outro - Ashen"
description = ""
weight = 13
+++

To discuss the SSD’s mainline strike aerospace attack craft, it’s necessary to look back at World War III. 

In the early days of the preceding war, the Black Sea Conflict, with the United States entering a period of isolation and recovery from the massive cyberattack that crippled the country, Canada was left in a precarious position. Having relied on its increasingly fair-weather neighbour to the south for serious wartime defense for well over a century, pressures from the Pacific in the form of China and Russia left the Canadian government nervous in regards to their aging fleet of Gripen-Is and Block IV F/A-18s. The Super Griffin project had only resulted in a grand total of four functional next-generation fighter craft and while its Loyal Wingman programs were top of the line, the four craft were a precious resource that Canada was unwilling to send overseas to fulfill its NATO responsibilities. 

So in response to the escalating conflict in the Black Sea Region, Canada dug up the original plans for the Advanced Super Hornet, licensed to them by Boeing decades previously. Re-engineered and upgraded for the modern battlefield, the craft underwent few visible changes but its internals were functionally wholly replaced. Decades of Canadian research and contributions to the NATO arsenal were handpicked and crammed into the frame, from advanced radar and lidar, next generation missiles and, crucially, ultra-high efficiency engines that ran on a custom fuel formulation.  

When it came time for production, the lines that produced the Super Griffins proved inadequate to build the new retrotech craft. So new assembly lines and fabrikators were stood up and existing corporations were allowed to stand up their own in return for lucrative contracts. With major strikes against NATO targets now rolling across eastern Europe and Japan under significant threat of invasion, production was barely keeping up. Allegations of corruption misdirecting resources and funds lead to the Defenestration of Montreal as Prime Minister Ellie Trudeau personally threw the entire board of Bombardier Aerospace out of their meeting room. 

Canada tooled up, mining and fabrikating the materials it needed, entirely homegrown. When Boeing came knocking about partnerships or whining about patent infringement, Prime Minister Trudeau pointedly looked at the window.

Canada went into the Black Sea Conflict with 36 F/A-18s, 24 Gripen-Is and 4 Super Griffins.

It went into World War III with 32 F/A18s, 18 Gripen-Is, 4 Super Griffins and 288 CF-288 ASH-ERs.

The Advanced Super Hornet - Extended Range. *Ashers*. 

Designed as weapon platforms over fighters or attack craft, they were not the most advanced craft in the sky, but what they carried was and they carried a lot of it. A Mig-74 could conceivable face three and outfight them - the problem was an Asher cost a quarter the price of the Mig and was fielded on a scale that brooked no opposition. Two squads of Ashers could turn a battle. An entire squadron could secure aerial superiority. A wing was enough to flatten a city in two hours. 

Its obscene payload of gear and weaponry wasn’t its only strong point. Ashers were generally fielded from bases in France, but the engines and fuel that enabled their Extended Range meant that they could launch from Newfoundland and hit Azerbaijan in one supercruise. In fact, as the war progressed, Canada’s opponents discovered that the range was much, much greater than that. When the Russian 2nd Arctic fleet descended to threaten Alaska and Canada, one wing was grounded for maintenance and another was conducting strikes in the remains of the Middle East. While the four Super Griffins and other craft held the 2nd fleet at bay, the second wing dropped its bombs and missiles on its targets and continued eastwards. A hastily negotiated mid-air re-armament by the Indian Air Force was the only thing resembling a stop as the pilots flew a roundabout route away from Russian-aligned airspaces to ensure the secrecy of Operation: Magellan. 

When the wing of fighters appeared on the radar of the 2nd Fleet, behind them and closing fast, panic ensured all of three anti-air cruisers were able to get into position to defend the fleet. To their credit, they did a fearsome job of shooting down the 2304 missiles the wing fired, but many got through, ravaging the Russian fleet. They never saw the Ashers drop their new stealth torpedos - they certainly never knew that Canada had sold the design to India to be fabrikated 12 hours ago. One hundred and forty-four torpedoes detonated under the keels of the 2nd Fleet, breaking its back and hurling smaller craft out of the water in pieces.

As the War entered its nuclear stage and the states of Earth entered their domes, the Ashers continued to be produced and their resilient, older designs proved to be ideally suited to warring in the nuclear storms that enveloped the Earth. Their pilots generally did not survive the exposure to radiation and at some point they gained the moniker “ashens.”

--

On May 28th of the twenty-fifth year of the Star Era, Captain Ram Saetang met with Elshara Bivvek under the auspices of the Interest. They spoke of the growing conflict in the periphery, what the Interest could offer and other things that the great figures of history tend to speak of. Bivvek promised aid in the form of resources, contacts and information, but regretfully indicated war materiel was unlikely to be forthcoming.

--

World War III functionally ended Canada and most nation states, reconfiguring the major civilizational holding to Domes. Though allied, by the time Elshara Bivvek landed on Earth, the domes of what used to be Canada barely thought of themselves as Canadian anymore. But when Earth invaded Mars, among the first craft into its atmosphere were CF-388s - Ashens. Canada did not exist as country anymore, but the peculiarity of its governmental structure meant that it survived as a corporation - one that was universally acknowledged to hold the rights to the design. 

The Ashens followed the designs of their predecessors - now markedly different visually to accommodate the enormous engines of aerospace craft. The lengthened nose, the tapering of the wings towards the cockpit, the iconic naval gray, all nods to the old Ashers. But most importantly was their ability to field an absurd quantity of bombs, missiles and lasers. The military tech base of Mars was largely unknown, and rather than bother with trying to design vehicles that could out perform, the Earth decided to go with a tactic that had served the Canadians well. Out-producing and flattening the enemy with overwhelming firepower.  

When the Corporate War hit, Ashen-IIs fought Ashen-Bs. When the Hauberi-Coronand began their genocidal war against the Human Sphere, Ashen-IIIs filled the skies in defensive and offensive engagements. Wormrings were first fitted to Ashen-IIIs to enable long-range sneak attacks on Hauberi-Coronand facilities, hearkening back to the ancient Magellan Strike. And when the Corsairs struck deep into the Sphere, Ashen-IVs were the line craft that held them back, commemorative maple leafs gleaming and shattering on wings.  

These days, the Ashen-V has fallen out of favour as the SSD focuses on pure technological superiority. They do still see use as testbeds for new weapons technology as they remain excellent weapons platforms, but the days of their mass production are gone, as craft, ships and mechs are designed, built and deployed for specific purposes.

--

On June 2nd of the twenty-fifth year of the Star Era, one wing, - one hundred and forty four - Ashen-IVs went missing from the depot on Antares II.
