+++
title = "Episode 13 Outro - Contact"
description = ""
weight = 14
+++

The notification comes when he’s still trying to do logistics of an Anti-Eater strategy. The aide knows better than to burst into his quarters but the urgent pings from his door have the same effect. He looks at the time as he rises - one in the morning, four hours after his shift was over. Goddammit, he’d moved to the CDF to get away from this nonsense.  

Marshal Frederico Ayim answers his door and the lieutenant  is wholly unsurprised to find him still in uniform. 

“Sir, we’ve received word that another SecCorp colony is under attack. They’re requesting aid with, ah, ‘a down payment on the favor we’ll owe you.’ It’s a superfreighter full of minerals.”

A bribe, in other words. “Does it come with a complete lack of sensor data too?”

“No sir, there’s a decent force assessment. This captain hung back while escorting the freighter out and got some good readings. No monitors, a frigate and 4 corvettes.”

Mmm. Manageable with a task group. “No word on ground forces?”  

“No sir, he didn’t hang that far back.”

“Very well. Detach a task group of torpedo frigates - make sure they have dropships and the requisite troops assigned to them. Then send messenger drones to non-QEC task groups requesting information on all SecCorp movements they’ve noticed in the past 2 months. I’ll message the QEC ones.”

“Yessir.”

Ayim sends the message for routing to Perimeter Station and gets back to the ugly work of preparing a strategy against the apocalypse. 

Saetang’s information on the QEC interference was useful, but difficult to implement. Nevermind SSD distant doubt of the threat of this “Eater of Worlds,” which was a separate matter. He could, in a way, understand the head-in-the-sand approach to the problem. It was an enormous, alien concept, that a world could be broken down as food for a galaxy-wandering organism. But understanding did not necessarily lead to respect, so he kept pushing at them.  

The proposed QEC warning system was a sound one, but not without weaknesses. The most glaring being that it required at least three QECs - two for a warning system on for the system hosting the colony and one for the warning system for its “paired” colony. The idea was that this would give the colony warning that it was about to be hit by the Eater, and also allow it to message other colonies if its partner experienced the “heartbeat delay” that would be the alert. QECs were time and resource-intensive things to make. The process was unrefined, very hit or miss and the particles that could actually be entangled also didn’t have a one hundred percent success rate. Rolling enough QECs out to cover every colony was virtually impossible in any useful timeframe. 

The other weakness was a complete lack of data on the effective range of the Eater’s interference. Would the appearance of interference give a colony hours? Days? Minutes? The radius of the interference was also a complete unknown. Would the system alert if an Eater passed near a system? Which raised the complicating question of what to do about that information. The CDF didn’t have the resources to try hunting one of these things down, but the SSD might. 

Which, quite naturally, brought Ayim back around to the question of how to motivate the SSD. God, he hated politics, even if he was middling at them. He knew good people in the SSD, but the ones in charge of things like requisitions and logistics were… well, all to often those positions attracted people far too self-interested for his tastes. Hmm. Self interest. That was a common leverage point. Could he leverage people interested in the QEC’s success? On the military side, easily, but the production side… he didn’t even know where these things were being made. It was unlikely that it would be by a corporation, but the SSD’s top secret fabrikation facilities may as well not exist to a CDF Marshal. But to someone Interested…

He starts writing on a different QEC terminal.

--

His sleep is cut short by another ping. Blearily, he checks the time. Two hours. Could be better, could have been worse.

“What.” He says this time over the intercom. 

“Another attack on SecCorp, sir.” The lieutenant sounds more than a little worried.  

“Fucking…” Ayim hauls himself out of bed. “Send me the details. Also, bring up what we have on Deckard True, this is shaping up to be more of an assault than a set of raids.”  

“Yessir!”

Going over force dispositions and really quite shit sensor data at three in the morning is his least favorite military pastime and one that he’s been “indulging” in far too often these days. If he was right and True was making a move on SecCorp - which was entirely in-line with his rhetoric - they’d have to commit critical resources to the distasteful task of reinforcing SecCorp because the last thing they needed was these Blood/Red Banners getting access to even more advanced military hardware. 

They also needed to go on the offensive and actually try and find out where these pirates had their base, but he already had a force detachment in mind for that little task. 

Another ping. 

“Come in,” he growls into the intercom. As the now-exhausted lieutenant enters, Ayim struggles to fight down a wave of pity and despair. Oh kid, you’ve got a loooot more long nights ahead of you. 

“Another request for aid sir.”  

“Of course. We’ll have to send to Perimeter Station for thi-” 

Marshal Frederico Ayim freezes as some misfiring neurons manage to connect two thoughts together. He blinks once. Twice.  

“Get this out to all task groups, via messenger drones or QEC. All task groups are to recall to Point Null Papa. Are those SecCorp ships still in system?”  

“Yessir, we’ve been putting them into orbit queue around Sunnydown.”

“Have they sent any parties to the planet? Leave, or whatever they call it?”  

“Um,” the lieutenant checks their tablet. “A quick look through sensor and orbital control data says no, sir.”  

“Fucking fantastic. Get Jurić on the line, encrypted. Has anyone begun inspecting the superfreighter?”  

“No sir.”  

“Don’t bother, get it into the same orbital queue, try to get it between some of the SecCorp ships.”  

“Um.” The lieutenant looks nervous. “How do I do that?”  

“No idea, ask around, lean on orbital control, figure it out.”

“O-okay. Understood sir. Sir, may I ask-”

Another ping. 

“Hilarious. I hate it when I’m right. Let me guess,” he says, addressing the overwhelmed looking Ensign at the door, “Another request for aid.”  

“No sir. A wildcat colony just… they just reported a First Contact Event.”

Ayim stares. The lieutenant stares. The ensign looks anywhere but at the two officers. Then Ayim reaches into his desk and brings out an old notebook. He tears out a page and the two juniors watch him as he folds and incredibly poor origami representation of a table, which he then places on the desk in front of them.  

He extends a finger and flips the tiny thing.  
