+++
title = "Episode 14 Outro - En Concerto"
description = ""
weight = 15
+++

Lieutenant Renma Jomura slams another mag into his rifle and looks at the remains of the squad he’s been able to assemble. The SecCorp assault on Perimeter station took them all by surprise, and the rampant deployment of ultralights only exacerbated it. Apparently they were called Fire Wasps, but lacking any IFF, he’d have to take comms’ word for it. 

Seven soldiers down from fifteen. They still had one laser cannon in a HWAR and a pair of grenade launcher, so they weren’t defenseless against the ultralights, but the sheer volume of fire those things put downrange, plus supporting infantry, made losing more heads and eventually the station an inevitability.  

“Command, how’s the extraction of the precious cargo going?”

“More than halfways done, Lieutenant. ETA thirty minutes.”  

Some quick mental math wasn’t encouraging. The rate they’d been falling back, in thirty minutes they’d be fighting in the communications centre. 

“Command, there’s no way we’re going to be able to hold out here for that long. I need more or bigger guns.” 

“Understood Lieutenant, but most assets are covering other evacuations. We’ll see what we can do.”  

“Thank you, Command.”  

Renma pokes his head around the corner to get an idea of what’s coming and immediately pulls it back and hurriedly signals the half of his squad hidden on the other side of the T-junction. An ultralight is squeezing its way through the blast doors down the hall, and there are probably rank and file SecCorp personnel following it. 

His half of the squad aim guns around the corner and open fire past the Fire Wasp and as it charges, hurl breaching charges and smoke grenades before bolting back. They don’t have to hurt it, they just need to get its attention. Deafening booms and the hiss of smoke fill the air as they sprint down the hall, trying to get out of range of the damn thing’s flamers. With an ear-splitting screech, the Fire Wasp scrabbles around the corner, guns up, ready to light them up.  

Immediately their laser cannon spears it in the back, slagging through the armor and rapid fire grenade launchers shred its internals and the meat of the pilot within. The ultralight staggers forward a few steps and collapses to the ground, Renma’s cue to turn on a dime, skidding in his heavier semi-powered armor, and charge back to the intersection to intercept the infantry and save his heavy weapons.  

Approaching the intersection he whips a curveball throw with a frag grenade around the corner where the infantry should be. Cries of alarm confirm that, giving him roughly their range and so he hurls himself across the intersection, rifle on full auto, hosing the approaching SecCorp soldiers down. 

The SecCorp soldiers, already realizing they’d fallen for a trap, were trying to retreat, but the rest of his squad reinforced Renma’s prone position and automatic fire and grenades tore the corprat soldiers apart. 

Huffing, Lieutenant Jomura gets to his feet, already trying to come up with a way to capitalize on the situation. They have bare minutes before the next assault. Behind them is a food court, an open arena for Fire Wasps to wreak havoc in. He’s tempted to flat out abandon this area, but that would unacceptably shrink their defensive perimeter. 

He eyes the fallen ultralight. The rear is torn to pieces, but it might be that just the pilot is dead. 

“I don’t suppose any of you have mech licenses?”

The quiet chorus of no’s is about what he expected. But then-  

“Heh. Alright, try to find this thing’s flamer ammo. Rig it to blow. Nbewe, you’ve got camera’s still, yeah? Good. Set one up watching this intersection. Next squad to come through here gets a napalm sunset.”

The chorus this time is decidedly more vicious and gleeful.  

--

Captain Ram Saetang drags himself out of the Orc’s cockpit again. Everything still hurts, but his body is starting to remember how to do this. This round’s worth of combat against Sascha was starting to wake him up, so even as the big man improved, Danny was consistently able to shut him down, even with the Orc’s sub-par actuators. It was meant as a raider, not a hand-to-hand combatant. But give a student of General Saelim a pair of hand actuators and… well…

“Keptain, I have no idea how you can make the mech move like that. Parries and the sweeping of the legs? This is stuff of the next level, yes?”

“Mmm, yes and no. What are you trained up on for self-defense?”

“Systema, most obviously.”  

“...yeah, don’t know why I asked that. You have drills and no katas, right?”

“This is correct, yes.”

Danny forces himself to stretch. No matter how relieved he feels now, his body needs to be stretched out after that ordeal. 

“So I had a similar problem - Muay Thai is all practical combat drills. What you want is something rhythmic like yoga or tai chi, something that develops your sense of space.”

“You want me to do tai chi.” The big Russian’s face is incredulous.

“No, I want you to do tai chi while hooked up to your neurohelm. Doesn’t have to be that stuff either. If you want to grow your fanbase on Segura even more, make it karate or aikido.”  

He meant it as a joke, but Sascha looked to be taking the suggestion much more seriously all of a sudden. Well, whatever works.  

“Ultimately, you want to establish control of the mech not as a vehicle, but as a second body. Any driver can make a mech walk between bays. The whole reason mechs are a license class of their own is this stuff.”  

“Arguably, the reason anything beyond basic vehicle licenses have their own requirements is that they represent complex forms of movement that you need to integrate differently with.”  

At the interruption, both men turn to take in the small form of Aryana Latfi.  

“You agree with this yoga-in-a-neurohelmet glupost then?”  

“No idea. I’m an aerojock, not a walker-in-steel. But I’ll tell you this, I make all my pilots run VR time trials. Fly through the rings, find the fastest route through these tunnels, that sort of thing. Make it AR when possible, get the pressure of those G-forces. Just shooting things and practicing maneuvers isn’t enough, you need to push yourself to make the vehicle an extension of your mind.”  

“I suppose this makes sense then, yes, but why make with the denigration of drivers? Should they not…”

Danny leaves them to the argument. He won’t push Sascha on the matter, but he’s got a feeling the discussion with Lieutenant Latfi will bring him around.

--

Down to five squadmates now, Renma covers their retreat into another set of corridors, throwing up an arm to shield his exposed neck from the small arms fire tearing their way. He’s lucky the round that stripped the armour off wasn’t two inches higher. Coronand semi-powered armor didn’t have much in the way of protection around the jaw. Ballistics ping off the crude slabs of metal and ceramic and laser fire slags pieces as well. Occasionally super-fine slivers explode off the plates and slice through the fabric around his joints, a sure sign that their integrity is about to fail. Bloody annoying as well.  

He orders the door trapped and as two squadmates move to do that, he sees movement on the other side of the corridor. 

“Flankers!” he yells and darts in front of an unaware grunt, dumping the remainder of the magazine downrange at this fresh squad of SecCorp infantry. 

He has no time to tell if his squad is reacting, he needs these corprats dead *now*. And so he tosses his rifle aside, the Coronand armor depositing two holdout pistols into his hands. He fires them wildly as he closes with the SecCorp squad. A few are down and they look pissed that their ambush failed, but they’re still firing down the corridor, turning it into a killzone. He can feel more and more slivers of his armor tearing through into him and just as he thinks he’s not going to make it, a shadow steps out of a room behind the corprats.  

The sound of a new gun retort joins the chaos and black and yellow infantry start dropping. It’s just enough confusion for Lieutenant Renma Jomura to hit their line and draw a single wakizashi emblazoned with a chrysanthemum. 

His first kill isn’t with the blade, its with a powered strike to a windpipe. The second is though, capitalizing on the panicked confusion of a soldier watching the head of the man beside him suddenly erupt into bone and blood. The newcomer is barely visible in some kind of chameleon coating, dancing between corprat soldiers and discharging an extremely high-powered handgun. The chaos of close combat suits him, and his wakizashi cuts fine lines through SecCorp flesh. Between the two of them, Renma and the cloaked rescuer drop the squad in seconds. 

Looking back, he sees that he’s lost another two soldiers, but that the charges on the door are armed.  

“Fuck,” he mutters, signaling his whittled down squad to move up on him. They grab the grenade launchers and his rifle, while he turns to address the operative.  

“Thank you for the aid. We probably wouldn’t have survived that without your intervention.”

The chameleon coating fades for the moment, revealing a slim figure of medium height. “You’re welcome. Nice blade.”  

“I’d ask your name, but we need to get to the next defensible-”  

“Change of orders. The last of the QECs has been loaded. Our job’s done here, Lieutenant. We’re to extract to bay 003.”

Renma goes to verify orders with Command, and then notices that all bands are jammed. *Dammit, how long have I been this distracted?* Then he realizes that he’s been fighting non-stop for nearly six hours. 

“Alright, but if I’m going to follow you, I *definitely* want a name.”  

The operative is already turning to leave, but stops. The glassy black of their helmet fades into transparency to reveal an angular, androgynous face. “Call me Greer. Let’s go.”

Renma takes his rifle, reloads it and follows the operative.  

--

*Four fifty-eight, four fifty-nine… done.* Danny slumps to the floor from his plank position and stays there a moment. The gym is otherwise empty at this time of day, which is just as well. He’d normally give a better showing, giving his subordinates a kick in the rear reminder to keep up on their PT, but at the moment he’s already physically drained from the mech duels. Going any harder would be inadvisable. Hell, this is probably inadvisable, but he needs to beat his body into shape again. 

As he’s leveraging himself to his knees, the door hisses open. He looks over and sees Lieutenant Black enter in workout gear. All black, naturally. There’s an unobtrusive red symbol where the logo of some brands would go, which Danny thinks is just begging for him to be discovered. 

Regs don’t require salutes in the gym, but the lieutenant gives him a nod regardless before starting a run on a treadmill. Getting to his feet, Danny stretches and makes his way to the squat rack, telling himself that this is the last exercise before turning in. He gets on with it, disappointed in his showing, but having enough sense not to overdo it. On his way out the door, Lieutenant Black calls out,

“Not going to take your own advice, Captain?”

Danny bristles slightly, but pushes it down. “What advice would that be, *Lieutenant*?”

The other man gives a shrug, stepping off the treadmill and heading for the free weights. “Your body may have forgotten the pressures of a mech cockpit, but your performance in VR training shows promise. I wonder how much more you could improve doing the exercises you recommended Commander Sokolov.”  

“I wake up and do tai chi. Doing the exercises in a mech I won’t be using is pointless.”

“Going into *that* mech without refreshing your neurohelm-body cognizance is worse than pointless.”

“Glad a technician knows more about my neurohelm adaptability than me.” It’s more caustic than he was aiming for, but he’s short on patience after today. “Stay in your lane, Lieutenant.”

That gets a nod from the other man who continues with lat raises. Danny turns to leave, but Black has one last rejoinder for him.  

“Yeah, I’m just a technician. But I see the readouts daily. All it needs is a top-tier P1. I’d rather that part be in adequate working order before slapping it in, is all.”

Danny suppresses a shiver and leaves the gym.  

--

“Move it, Lieutenant!” growls Greer, hauling him up by the collar of his armor, displaying surprising strength. “There are reinforcements in the hangar.”

“Get my guys out and I’ll follow,” Renma snaps back. His armor is falling to pieces around him and his abdomen is completely exposed at this point. As he and Greer bolt for the next piece of cover, he can feel more shots ping off his still-armored back. 

“You heard the man, fucking move!” yells Greer, firing with that enormous automatic of theirs. Half the shots hit, dropping infantry *hard* with their impact. Renma risks a look around the shitty plant holder they’re huddled behind. A rogue shot shatters into his helmet’s forehead, almost laying him out flat. The ringing in his head is immense and suddenly he can’t see straight, but he’s like, ninety percent sure that’s because his helmet display is fucked.

“Goddammit. Stupid fucking grunts- I SAID MOVE IT PRIVATE!” Greer pops the seals off his helmet and discards it and suddenly Renma can see properly again. Okay good, not concussed, but still one hell of a headache. “You about ready to retreat properly now, hero?”

“Y-yeah,” Renma manages. “Also, uh. Fire Wasps inbound.” 

He points in the mech's direction and Greer doesn’t even bother to look, just grabbing him and hauling him along. Their stuttering stride gets better as he gets his feet under him, but he can hear the clanging of the murderous ultralights on their tail. The pair of them get through the door and while he’s looking behind them for their doom, Greer clearly has the better sense, tossing him hard to the side, yelling, “Down!”

He only has a split second to register look at them in confusion before a Fire Hawk bursts through the door, flamers raised…

...only to take a barrage of laser and machine gun fire straight into the face. A missle careens past it into the hall and the resulting explosion hurls it forwards, imbalanced. Now exposed and disoriented, it’s easy prey for the fire teams in the bay. Not to mention the source of the laserfire. He’s seen it before, but in person, the Gu-0000 suddenly looks a lot less goofy and a lot more lethal. Its bug-like posture turned lethal from awkward, its gleaming green camo a visual refutation of SecCorp’s garish black-and-yellow.  

“Greer, si-, uh, Major! Get clear, I can hold this point!” The voice is painfully nasally over local comms, and Renma has to assume it’s the pilot of the Gu. Gods help him, he barely sounds sixteen. 

“Good work, Ensign. Jomura! Your men are clear, now fucking go with them!”

“Like hell I’m going to abandon you!”  

The operative’s faceplate goes transparent, revealing furious visage. “I can fucking go invisible you stupid honor-bound grunt! I’m getting clear on my own terms, now get out of here before I have someone harpoon your dumb ass!”

With that they swipe their hand across their faceplate and fade into the background, leaving Renma feeling mildly stupid. He chalks it up to maybe being concussed after all and scrambles after the remains of his squad, who are waving to him from a shuttle. The Gu begins slowly backing up the ramp of a drop ship, laying down a regular barrage until it’s fully onboard. As the ramp raises, Renma watches as it leans forward dangerously, revealing the massively multiple missile pod on its back and seemingly dumping its entire reserves. 

As the explosions tear down all entrances to the hangar, the last CDF shuttles and drop ships leave Perimeter Station, having been driven off by a concerted SecCorp fleet. They’d bled them dry, but the sheer numbers SecCorp put forward dwarfed any response they could manage. 

Now, all they had was successfully retreat to a Null Point and see who else made it out of this ambush. 
