+++
title = "Episode 15 Intro - Restorative"
description = ""
weight = 16
+++

“Oh my god, Ballabh, I cannot believe you’re wearing that to a graduation ceremony,” whispers Vice Admiral Ellie Bains beside him.

“What, can’t an old man delight in some finery from time to time?”  

“I wouldn’t call *dress white*s* finery,” she sniffs. The rest of their retinue is in formal blues and even that rates as borderline resentful. 

“Unlike some people, I actually get mine *properly tailored*.”  

“Tailoring doesn’t help the damn choker,” she fires back, glaring at the offending starched collar.  

“Get a better tailor,” he whispers as it's his turn to rise and give a speech.  

Admiral Ballabh Kehar reaches the podium and looks out over the small sea of people before him. This year’s graduating class of Sol System Military Academy was slightly anemic, the corruption scandal from earlier in the year having torn through the ranks like a tiger through meat. An embarrassing event that would likely hamper their recruitment efforts for years to come but one that they had to start offsetting now. And so here he was, armed with the best, most inspiring speech his staff could come up with, fitted to the times and latest news.  

Also, his daughter assured him it wasn’t a disaster, so he was happy to take her at her word. 

So he launches into his speech and as far as he can tell he’s not boring the daylights out of them, reeling in the sleepier-looking ones with an aside about the Corsair Action and tying that to the mess out in the Periphery. 

And then it’s time for commissioning. Cadets would come up and receive their commission, have their name, commissioning rank and posting announced, salute and leave as officers of the SSD. Honour roll students were commissioned first and had the most variation in ranks and interesting postings.  

Admiral Kehar finds his place and seats himself again. At this point his job is done and he’s now window dressing, something he’s perfectly comfortable with. The commissioning was the business of Academy officers, after all. They should be allowed the pride in their charges - those that hadn’t flagrantly violated regulations and the honor of the Academy, that is. 

“Johan Escobar. Ensign. SSDS *Endeavour*.”

“Qi-en Faiyin. Lieutenant Junior Grade. SSDS *Barack Obama* .”

“Mitchell Fetters. Ensign. SSD Research Facility Io-9.”

“Jennifer Fenwick. Lieutenant… CDF *Frigate-127*.”

That causes an audible stir in the hall. Being commissioned right into the rank of Lieutenant was rare, and few people left in the hall would likely be doubting that Lieutenant Fenwick deserved it, but it’s tempered by the fact that she was being sent straight to the CDF. Of course, most of them didn’t know that she requested the posting after hearing him out. 

Vice Admiral Bains leans over and whispers, “I don’t think you know what you’ve done, Ballabh.”

“Hmm?”

“Watch.”

The honour roll is called without anything else standout, so he has to wait and see what the Vice Admiral is talking about. It becomes clear a few minutes in.  

“Taryn Baird. Ensign. CDF *Carrier-13*.”  

“Hugo bin Ballard. Ensign. *SSDS Mercury*.”

“Simone Ballatine. Ensign. *CDF Carrier-13*.”

“Felix Ballatyne. Ensign. *CDF Carrier-13*.”

“Okonoye Bamako. Lieutenant Junior Grade. *SSDS Antares*.”

“Herzegovina Bamme. Ensign. Colonial Defense Forces.”

*Huh*. He thinks to himself, mildly stunned. Vice Admiral Bains was correct, this was not the outcome he had in mind when recruiting Lieutenant Fenwick into the CDF. Also, since when did the CDF have *carriers*, let alone *thirteen* of them.  

--

All told, one-third of the graduating class of 025 SE followed Lieutenant Jennifer Fenwick into the CDF.

--

Danny ducks backwards to dodge a quick one-two combo from Alec, resisting the urge to parry and step into the bigger man’s guard. Having already been thrown to the ground with ease, he wasn’t eager to try grappling with the Scotsman again. Instead, as Alec closes with him he fires a low kick at his leading leg, looking to weaken his opponent’s foundation.  

Alec takes the blow without resistance, his leg a solid oak. Danny almost grimaces in frustration and embarrassment. His PT has seriously deteriorated and his fighting skills even more so. He can feel from the lack of real sting in his foot how weak that blow was. At least he has some real agility left and is able to dodge the Commander.  

They trade blows for a short while and then the Commander surprises the hell out of Danny, stepping back to swat a roundhouse away and then using the momentum to continue the spin and land a spinning back kick, blowing straight through Danny’s hasty guard and into his helmet. It’s the first solid hit either of them has taken, but between the guard, Alec’s reduced force and the helmet, it doesn’t hurt terribly. 

So why has his vision gone weirdly dark? 

He holds up a hand to signal for a pause.  

“Everything alright, Cap’n?”  

“Well, I can’t fucking see at the moment, so, uh, no.”

“Wh- I dinnae hit ye that hard!” 

“No, you didn’t. I think it’s the implants.” 

“Oh. Should we get ye to med bay?”

“Probably a good idea. Dammit. Wait, hang on.”

Normally the implants feel very natural in his skull, if a bit heavy. Now though, he can feel tiny little scribbling and scrabbling in them and it is very disconcerting. He does vaguely remember something about built-in self healing and hopes that that’s what’s happening and that his eyes aren’t just going to hatch tiny mechanical spiders because that *would just be his week, wouldn’t it*.

The world fades back in, eventually snapping back into something like digital clarity. He looks around and does the physical exercises of panning his eyes back and forth and up and down. He makes himself slightly dizzy with the rapidity, but there’s no resistance and they track properly on command. He holds up his palm to check the grooves in his lifeline and then snaps his eyes to the furthest corner of the gym. Everything checks out.  

He moves to take up a guard again before noticing the exasperated look on the Commander’s face.   

“Ah’m not fightin’ ye without a checkup, Cap’n. Git ye tae the medics!” And he points out the door.  

Danny rolls his eyes. Of course, he’s right. 

“Yeah, yeah. Thanks for the spar. Going to be wanting to do this more often, if you’re up for it. *After* the checkup, yes.”

The Commander nods, giving a relaxed salute before going to cool off.  

--

“I’m just happy you came of your own accord, Captain.” Commander duMaurier says, holding the scanner to his eyes. Danny very pointedly doesn’t remark on the accuracy of that statement. “I just love - and by love I mean hate - how the preponderance of women joining the military didn’t alleviate stupid machismo. They just took it for themselves. Good to see a commanding officer taking preventative care seriously.”

Danny swallows delicately, once again keeping his goddamn mouth shut on the matter. “Anything showing up on diagnostics, Commander?”

“Well, it’s definitely registered that your implants underwent emergency self-repair. It’s taking a bit longer to scan for long-term or serious damage.”  

A sigh. “These are supposed to be military grade implants. The Commander’s kick wouldn’t have dropped me when I was twelve. How am I supposed to pilot a mech again if my eyes can’t take a few knocks?”  

“Raring to get back in the cockpit again, Captain?” she asks, archly. “I suppose there’s that Orc in the hangar, unless you were planning on ‘borrowing’ Ensign Andersen’s.”  

Danny takes the opportunity to change the subject. “Speaking of, how is she?”  

“Ah-ah, doctor patient confidentiality, I’m afraid. You’re not going to get any further information out of me than what’s in Hjeim and my reports.” 

“Right.” Danny tries to remember what those reports said and suddenly clues into something out of the ordinary. “Hang on, these tools seem awfully specialized for a CDF frigate, Commander.”

She gives him a withering glare. “Please, Captain. I pulled the medical files of all the crew before leaving Perimeter Station. I am fully prepared to deal with anything listed in those files, from your prosthesis to your Lieutenant Black’s anemia.”  

“My lieutenant? Also, what happened to doctor patient confidentiality?”  

“You have those records as well, Captain. And maybe I just wanted to highlight that this is a very small ship and *some* people are going to wonder what a crew of SSD technicians are doing about the drop pods we’re not using.”  

*Well. It’s not like she didn’t* earn *her commander’s rank.*

“Anyone is free to wonder what they like, Commander.” 

“Mm. Okay, the scanner has an idea of the problem. The mountings for your lens aperture aren’t fully attached to the inside of the orb. It’s referencing a procedure in the manual that can address this.”  

“Seems like a pretty big problem.”  

“I’ll look into any available upgrades or product recalls. In the meantime, I can probably do the procedure here. You’d be looking at a 3-4 hour downtime without eyes.”  

A grimace. “And then days of re-adjusting and recalibrating. Great.”  

“You want back in a mech or no?”

“...book me for tomorrow night.”  

“Excellent. You might actually get some sleep.”
