+++
title = "Episode 16 Outro - Rider"
description = ""
weight = 17
+++

The Perfect Empire has ruled across its ever-expanding border for three thousand years. A conglomeration of a dozen species, it has conquered and annihilated twice that number. It achieves this through a combination of extremely fine battlefield control and excellent political manipulation. Its Celestial Choirs reveal the weaknesses of its opposite numbers on the battlefields and its Grand Conservatories craft custom diplomats to turn the tide of opinion within the borders of its enemies. 

In this distant, desolate arm of the Empire, Captain Krulrik replaced Commodore Invisig seven years ago. His units patrol took them to innumerable potentially habitable worlds, all empty of life. They dutifully took stock of the situation on the ground there. But Krulrik had read Invisig’s briefings. He knew of the weak, ineffectual species he’d encountered in the deepest corner of his patrol. While Invisig dismissed them as *a-embrasured*, Krulrik reviewed the output of the Celestial Choir. 

Though showing no sign of having embraced death, the fluctuations of the species mental state never spiked towards panic, despite the bioforms Invisig landed. They might not be warriors, but this species had a hardiness to them. And so Captain Krulrik resolved that he’d have something to show on his return to the Empire - a new potential client species, one with exceptional hardiness. 

--

Captain Krulrik, as a captain of the Perfect Empire, was not privy to descriptions of the Human Sphere that the Wandering Remnant provided the Empire’s Prefects.  

Neither was Commodore Invisig, but Krulrik, at least, tried to determine things for himself.

--

With assurance typical of the Empire, Krulrik moved on Antillia on the return path of his patrol. He planned to gather some specimens, definitively determine their usefulness to the empire and either return with them or raze them from the planet for their trespass. 

A diplomat, Krulrik was not. Nor was one assigned to him.  

His patrol would be among the last to suffer from this oversight.  

-- 

The Celestial Choir of the Perfect Empire is made up of a cascading number of mentally attuned grubs that feed into a superprocessor. Millenia ago, it was determined that those grubs could be bred to attune to the mental state of an opponent and through clever military tactics, advise when and where to strike the enemy to cause a break.  

To speed the development of that “when”, that opportunity, Perfect Empire bioforms were created to have a maximal visual and experiential impact on the battlefield. Huge, hulking things that were indomitable. Swift strikers that struck down opposing forces in one blow. Stealth units that would eat unaware opposition whole.  

Every unit’s purpose was designed to accelerate the opposition towards The Break, where unworthy, *a-embrasured* warriors would flee from overwhelming odds, allowing the Empire to cut them down at will or treat with them mercifully.  

Though there were thousands of detailed mental states that the Empires medical classes were tasked with investigating, from a military perspective only three or four mattered. 

Those that had embraced their death.

Those that had not.  

Those that had conquered it, completely.

And those that fled from death, wholesale.  

--

On July 7th, in the twenty-fifth year of the Star Era of the Human Sphere, they discovered a fifth.