+++
title = "Episode 17 Intro - Trinity"
description = ""
weight = 18
+++


Three things were working against the Perfect Empire at Antillia. 

--
# One

Once upon a time, it was an Ironsides. Not even a fully functioning Ironsides - a piece of patched-together salvage sent back to a Sol System depot for refurbishing in the early days of the Hauberi-Coronand War. It was in bad enough shape that it was due to be scrapped and recycled for parts. A research base, name now forgotten to the mists of time or locked behind so many clearances as to be forgotten, was in need of test chassis for new operating systems and were happy to walk off with a number of junk chassis.  

One of which was a blackened Ironsides, armor blown off in places and endoskeleton visible.  

While the research base’s brief was development of next generation operating systems and pilot interfaces to aid the nascent Human Sphere in their battle for survival against the Hauberi Coronand, it was also ground zero for development of some other technologies. True Artificial Intelligence had been a human pursuit since the early twenty-first century, but frequent missteps and particularly corporate abuse had resulted in a soft ban of the technology.  

But war was a fine place to hide such development.  

Four mechs in various states of repair underwent retrofitting with various types and stages of artificial intelligence. Over the course of twenty four months, all but the first prototype, the one most closely linked to a pilot, failed out of the program or were destroyed. Which is to say that BLK-0000 destroyed them or caused such corruption in their processes that the AI was deemed unrecoverable.  

Not a true AI by any stretch of the imagination, the processes that initially made up BLK-0000 were a set of complex machine learning algorithms designed to record pilot behaviours and to profile “how” a pilot fought. Early failure of BLK-0001 resulted in that model’s algorithm being backported to BLK-0000 and that is, to the best of SSD’s determination, where things began to go… wrong.  

BLK-0001 was designed to mimic pilot behaviour and provide haptic and visual suggestions to improve the pilot’s performance. When integrated with BLK-0000, the resultant hybrid began to provide suggestions to the pilot… and also its own pilot profile. The results were dramatic. Pilots reported that the program’s suggestions were rapidly becoming more drastic and violent, both in intent and execution. This was the beginning of what would become the iconic, disturbing convulsions that would define the public’s image of this machine. 

The AI slowly became more discerning of test pilots until only a very few number were able to actually start the machine. Theories were put forward as to what it considered qualifications but few made sense and diagnostics did not lead to much useful data. It was here that it was discovered that the AI had begun referring to pilots by the designation “P1.” A deep dive of the code and internal database revealed that this was considered to be a part number by the algorithm. 

When haptic feedback caused a pilot attempting to grapple BLK-0004 to instead crush the cockpit, the entire program was cancelled, the mech mothballed and the AI deactivated. In the single most heavily covered up incident in human history, three years later a lone Hauberi-Coronand strike force managed to find Earth. Sol System Defense managed to wipe them from the skies, but a small force landed outside Ulaanbaatar Ordos. They quickly overwhelmed the defenders and would have breached the dome, if not for the appearance of a badly-repaired mech. Through the smoke and dust of battle and the mist of dawn, a single red scanner beam swept through the hound-like troops and battle vehicles. The Hauberi screamed their ululating battlecry in mockery and for a moment the world dangled on a precipice of silence. Then, distorted and ear-splitting, the thing spat the cry back through blown-out speakers. 

And then the dying started.  

-- 

The Blackmech’s prominence in Human Sphere media relates to its ability to appear, cause an absolutely inhuman amount of death and destruction and either disappear or die itself. Every time it is sighted again it looks different, either subtly or drastically. Its plodding gait, its random twitches and convulsions, its tendency to advance with arms outstretched like some massive, earth-shaking zombie all contribute to something more than an urban legend. The Sphere *knows* it is out there and is only marginally certain it’s on their side. Imagine Godzilla, if Godzilla were real. The fictional organization Monarch would resemble something more like a scientific cult. 

Now imagine you’re an alien race that has monitored humans. You believe them to be timid, barely capable of self-defense and possessed of an eclectic mix of technologies. You have no concept of Godzilla or zombies and you suddenly run up against this dark thing that does not feel, does not stop, howls like a thousand tortured souls, screams like dying dogs and fills the very air with such dread that the humans physically shy from it.  

And you know that a human pilots that thing.

--

# Two

Sol System Defense and the Colonial Defense Forces styled themselves as more egalitarian, less rule- and tradition-bound than older Earth militaries. This was to combat the attitudes that saw stiff, unadaptive militaries take huge losses during the Third World War. In actuality, only the CDF was truly egalitarian and open, but SSD made token efforts in that direction.  

A result of this was a broad understanding that medals and ribbons were not to be handed out for any old thing. Military traditions that had decorated soldiers parade about with plates full of medals and awards had come too close, both in appearance and reality, to dictatorships that generally had similar traditions. Commendations and small ceremonies restricted to the unit or division were to be the norm. Soldiers were taught to know their own self worth and the worth of their comrades by their deeds, not by their record. 

But there was an awareness that medals and awards were sometimes warranted, both in recognition of deeds done and as morale boosters. A handful were handed out prior to the Hauberi-Coronand war, but the greatest issuance of them was after the Battle of Antares, the days-long space battle that finally broke the Hauberi-Coronand fleet and nearly broke the Human Sphere’s.  

In the wake of that battle, every soldier present was awarded the Veteran of Antares medal. Soldiers that went above and beyond were awarded Vanguards of Antares, often posthumously. Sometimes whole spaceships were awarded these for daring actions, so the number was higher than one would expect. And the highest honour issued was the Hero Of Antares. Five of these were issued, all to pilots. One to a bomber, one to a gunship, one to an intercept craft, one to a search and rescue and one to a repair tug. 

This formula was so well-received, the SSD formally adopted it for major battles. It would be a mere decade before it was implemented again, this time at the conclusion of a series of raids by the Corsairs pirate group. Called the Corsair Action, the battle was originally intended to be a delaying action, to buy time for SSD backup to arrive. Instead, over the depot moon of Crannaugh II, rather than a raid, the Corsairs arrived with their entire fleet. Grown fat on loot and recruits, they intended to strip the depot of weapons, ships, anything they could to transform their raiding flotilla into a legitimate military threat. In response, Admiral Teddy Bin-Wei of the SSD Corsair Expeditionary Force maneuvered his ships to allow the landing force past before encircling the pirate fleet and corralling them into the depot moon’s gravity well.  

The moon’s defenses, once putting up a half-hearted show against the landing parties, suddenly went to one-hundred percent against the corralled vessels. Dropships and fighters were let by to be dealt with by ground and aerospace forces as the coordinated fire of the depot moon focused down one pirate ship after another. Between them, the CEF and the depot’s defenses rechristened the moon Corsair’s Grave.

Though they received Veteran-level awards, no ship in the space fleet received a single Vanguard. Those all went to the ground forces that had to weather the hordes of pirates now intent on looting enough gear to make a final stand, maybe repair a ship and escape. All told, eight hundred base defense personnel and two hundred SSD ground forces faced off against several thousand pirates.  

Nine hundred and ninety-six Vanguard medals were issued. Four Heroes were recognized, three posthumously, all in the same unit. Fifth Mechanized Combat Unit, Corsair Expeditionary Force, “Garuda squad.” The survivor was pulled from his mech in critical condition, having bested the pirate leader in single combat steps away from the entrance to the depot.

--

“Ahaha, God, you Seedies can’t shoot for shit! What are you, blind?”

To his surprise, Pirate King Abegnew Olo got a response from the hapless pilot he’d been taunting. The raid, the Corsairs were over, he knew. His men lay slaughtered around him, piled high alongside seedie bodies. But damned if he wasn’t going to go out in a blaze of glory. It had been a mad journey, and he’d just been hoping that his last breath would be glorious. Didn’t look like that would be the case with this pissant. They’d probably shell him from orbit or get him in a bombing run instead. No way this cock-eyed Jackson pilot could touch him.  

“As of that MG barrage a while back… yeah, actually.”  

Olo stopped dead. *What.*

“What?”

“Monitors exploded. Can’t see for shit. Also, I’m high as hell on painkillers, so sorry if I’m not at one hundred percent, *Lord* Olo.”  

“You’re fucking joking me. Jesus. Just eject, kid, go hide. I ain’t gonna kill a blind man. You’re not worth my time.”  

“Just surrender, man, go dark. We ain’t gonna kill a beaten man. You’re not worth our time.”  

Olo’s temper flared, but he kept it in check. “Can’t do that, kid. Not one to just lie down. Y’all’re gonna have to put me in the ground.”

A low hiss of pain over the comms as the damaged Jackson hunkered down. “Same.”  

The hairs on the back of Olo’s neck stood up. He’d drilled and trained his pilots to exploit the SSD’s penchant for ranged combat, their weakness in melee. Since then, he’d fought Seedie pilots who had come to know how dangerous, how lethal melee mech combat could be but none of them had been properly prepared to fight in melee. The stance the Jackson took… suggested this one was different.  

His blood up, excitement beginning to take over, Olo extended his curved blades from his sheathes and leapt at the blind man.  

Carbon, steel and ceramic clanged, shrieked and groaned as the two mechs tore at each other. Olo’s KNG-CUST was faster, with dedicated melee weapons, but the Jackson was more heavily armored and had strangely delicate hand actuators that the pilot knew how to use. The pilot was parrying him, redirecting his strikes and then using the reinforced armor of the Jackson to land shuddering blows to his torso and head. If they were fighting man-to-man, Olo had no doubt this pilot would have beaten the shit out of him, but here he was trying to make a modified Seedie line mech keep up with a machine designed to take them apart.  

Olo waded in for the kill.  

The Jackson pilot had other ideas.  

Olo’s initial lunge was a feint, to get the Jackson to commit to the parry. It did and he withdrew that blade, sending the other blade in for the shoulder joint of the parrying arm. How a blind man could see that coming was beyond him, but the Jackson darted in with a burst of jump jets, past both blades. A mech-wracking impact hit him and alarms went off informing him that he’d just lost a knee joint. Hitting his own jump jets, he tried to get clear, but the Jackson had grabbed a hold of him. He felt his mech buckle as the white and blue mech placed its foot against the back of his surviving knee actuator and pushed. Then a hand wrapped around his mech’s head from behind and the Pirate King Abegnew Olo managed one last laughing line,

“Fucking *masterf-*”

Before the Jackson slammed the head into the ground with the weight of two mechs, crushing him instantly.

--

Garuda squad, that day, accounted for more vehicle kills between four pilots than the rest of the SSD *combined* in the ten years since the end of the War of Coronand Extinction. Commander Ram Saetang was recovered from his mech, face ruined from shrapnel, delirious, shaking and calling out for his squadmates. His melee kill on the KNG-CUST was his two hundredth kill, of which more than a hundred and fifty had happened that day. His was the lowest count in Garuda. 

When it came time to accept his honors, Ram Saetang became the first person in SSD to decline, citing that if he’d done more, the other medals wouldn’t be posthumous. 


--

# Three

The Perfect Empire imagines themselves masters of the battlefield, in part due to the fact that their mastery of morale is extensive. This is accomplished through specialized bioforms collectively called The Choir. These tiny (by Empire standards) worms are hollow, fluted and produce a whistling hum that was historically soothing to the early peoples of the Empire. With bioforming, they learned to further reinforce this song, creating warriors that would not break or flee. Later breakthroughs, post-spaceflight, post first-contact allowed them to weaponize it against aliens. When they brought other alien species into their Empire, they tuned that weapon to “improve” their capability in combat, rather than diminish it. 

Sometime in their history, Imperial Warriors began experimenting with this choral weapon, turning it on themselves. They reasoned that if their courage was artificially improved by the choral harmonics, they could not be certain of their performance divorced of The Choir. They competed against one another, driving each other to greater lengths of fear and seeing where they would break. Early abuse of the weapon led to many senseless deaths, until finally bioforms were crafted to oversee The Choir - Conductresses. These would act as arbiters, pitting choral harmonics against selected warriors in controlled environments. 

Warriors who could stand a given level of demoralization, of facing their fears, were considered to have “embraced death.” Certain high level warriors, functionally immune to the negative effects of The Choir were considered to have “mastered death.”  

Despite being on a shit patrol, intended as punishment, Captain Krulrik had been eager to make the most of it, pushing himself and uplifting his cohort, intending to master death himself, nudge a few promising warriors towards its embrace. But this being a shit patrol, there were not many opportunities to dance with death. The frustration deriving from this, paired with a certain entitlement not uncommon among certain ‘forms, lead to what was in Conductress Kdiza’s opinion, wholly reckless behaviour. 

Her hands outstretched, she prepares to guide the choir to reinforcing the warriors of the Empire on planet. Whipping the wounded groundship into a frenzy would be trivial, and perhaps the surviving G’dat-form beneath Krulrik could be inspired. Krulrik would take full offense if she aided him at this junction, so she isn’t foolish enough to intercede with his wavelengths. His biosigns indicate that he’d kicked his immune systems into overdrive, so perhaps help was not even necessary.  

Tendrils about to manipulate the choir quiver in readiness when Kdiza notices the piece of metal leave the alien ship. It lights thrusters and makes for the atmosphere. Facial phlanges flaring in contempt, she thinks that whatever these aliens could commit this late in the fight would be of little resistance to a frenzied groundship and a berserk Krulrik, given how easily he’d cut through their superior numbers already.  

She casts The Choir’s song forth and almost immediately frowns at a certain feedback response. Not unlike a warrior refusing the song, the feedback makes her chitin tighten up in its… mechanical nature. Did the aliens have a counter to The Choir? But no, she’d not conducted active measures within anything like sensor range of them. Could they have faced similar things before? 

In her hesitance, Kdiza misses her chance to save the groundship as the plummeting hunk of metal slams down through the surviving section, all crude construct and atmospheric fire. 

“Emperor’s Breath!” she swears. *Fine! Krulrik* must *accept the song at this juncture, this has gone far enou-*

Many things happen in sequence. The Choir goes silent, suddenly. The ruined wall of the groundship explodes outward in a shower of gore and mist. A red beam cuts through the mist, appearing to scan the combatants. And The Choir begins to *scream*.  

Kdiza stands frozen as some black mechanoid stumbles forth from the ruins of the groundship, seemingly uncoordinated, save for its head, which stays locked on Krulrik. She tries to marshal The Choir, to use their wavelength sensors to see what has caused this but the moment she connects with the tiny forms, emotions completely alien to her crush through her mind. Fear, rage, an unnatural desire to howl at the stars, bloodlust, sorrow, fear, gloating menace and above all *fear*. It grips her mind, something like talons going for the core of her soul.

Shriekingly, she manages to break free of that thing’s terrifying presence and stumbles back into her harness on the bridge. All around her are biotechs, uncertain, beginning to panic. There is no record of The Choir acting in this way and for a Conductress to react so…

“Pull us out. Wormspace. We need to get back to the Empire.”

“Exalted, Captain Krulrik is still-”

“Captain Krulrik is *dead*!” she shrieks. “I am invoking Choral Authority! That… that *demon* is an existential threat to The Choir and we must report such back to the Empire. This patrol is officially *over* and we have a new priority mission. Gather all readings we can and *get us out of here.*”

The Choir doesn’t stop screaming until they enter Wormspace.

-- 

There’s a dragon in your head. 

At least, you’ve always imagined it as a dragon. A mad, evil dragon, powerful like the ones from your childhood stories, but twisted. When General Saelim had shown you and Kamon the terrible thing he hid from the world, the thing he’d claimed to have piloted, you were seized with dread just looking at the thing. Of course, that’s why it’d had gone to Kamon on his death.  

But watching the alien literally take apart your supporters had given rise to a more recent dread. You didn’t remember putting on the black pilot suit, let alone leaving the bridge. Lieutenant Black moved to stop you from entering the drop pod, took one look at your face and got the hell out of the way.  

Now, in the barely controlled freefall of an orbital drop, you deal with the dragon. You can feel it through the neurohelm, a slavering, screaming vengeful thing. With untold voices it howls for blood, for battle, to be tried, tested, found wanting and victorious. It latches onto your dread, about to eject you, but you turn that back on it. It is not the only thing made of wrath here.  

Impact. Your hands grip unfamiliar controls that suddenly in a ripple of nerves feel *very*, *unnaturally* familiar. You haul back and slam a punch through the drop pod and wall of the alien ship, feeling an explosion in your/the mechs’ elbow as a chemical explosion drives it further.

You are Captain Ram Saetang, Head of First Recon in Force, last student of General Reginald Saelim, the unSung Hero of Crannaugh, and Eighth Pilot of BLK-0000.  

*The Blackmech*.
