+++
title = "Episode 18 - Intermission"
description = ""
weight = 19
+++

# Part One - Sol System

“All right,” begins Vice Admiral Clarissa Bains, “We’re finally in a position to properly coordinate this.”  

“This” being the single largest investigation ever mounted by the Human Sphere - a comprehensive investigation of all of SecCorp and associated corporations outside the Rim. Six different intelligence bodies, two of which were completely unknown to the public, innumerable contracting companies and the military might of Sol System Defense in case SecCorp Core tried anything with their not-insignificant resources.  

“I’ve already thanked or done away with your superiors - you all report directly to me for the duration of this investigation. ‘Done away with’ might sound a little drastic, but forgive me if I’m not in the mood for taking chances when we’re teetering over the precipice of a Second Corporate War.”  

The other people on this call are on station at various points throughout the Sol System and at least one is on a ship waiting to jump out to their assigned location.  

“We are broadly breaking this investigation up into four teams - infotech, logistics, interviews and observations. You know which ones you’re in charge of and will forward reports to this office, where you’ll be responsible for making sense of the analysis co-operatively. To this effect, you’ve all been issued Mark III Quantum Entanglement Communicators. There’s still a bit for every endpoint, but the real win on the Mk III is that this will operate as a functioning real time chatroom.”

She looks at each person in turn. “I hope you all remember your netiquette from high school.”

A few people crack smiles at her attempt at levity, but on the whole the atmosphere is grim. Grim enough that rival organizations are largely willing to work together. Grim enough that these people have been made aware of The Interest (which includes *herself*, how the *hell* do you hide a secret organization across all of the Sphere from SSDI?!). 

“I’ll let you get back to your work shortly, but for now I want a high level summary of what we’ve determined so far while we can still talk in real time. Infotech, report.”

“Yes Ma’am. We’ve still got petabytes of data to trawl through but focusing on heat-mapped aggregates of documentation, messaging and video has produced some preliminary information. At this stage it looks like SecCorp execs and key investors are telling the truth - this appears to be a rogue action by the Rim branches of SecCorp. There are repeating references to some awareness that *something* was going on out there, but its framed in such a way that we think its more likely that they’re talking about illegal genetic modifications. You know, the sort of dirty work corps usually send out to the periphery. Their negative reactions to this secession appear to be genuine, if for completely different reasons that ours.”

Her junior pauses for a sip of water. 

“Lastly, and we came across this only,” he checks his watch, “Eight hours ago, but we’ve discovered what we think is a shadow network within SecCorp. It’ll take some time to break into, but our suspicions are that it belongs to the SecCorp Rim.” 

“Well, good to know this has genuinely caught the corpos with their pants down. Logistics?”

“Aye Ma’am. From our perspective there have definitely been movements made around this for at least the past four years.” A chorus of swears, Bains included. “Yeah, it’s not a good look on us. The personnel movements are one thing, pretty easy to do and we have to know it’s happening. Mass movements of ships, resources? Purchases of licenses, entire IPs? It’s fucking massive. The one thing I can say is that it’s spread so wide and thin we’d have needed to be looking at so many endpoints to even see the shape of it that its unrealistic to have deployed ourselves similarly so thin.”

“SecCorp isn’t that massive.”  

“No, they’re not. Even with subsidiaries, this implies they had to be working with other corporations. Or were duping them. The scale of which… well. I’m not sure which I prefer. Or hate least. Or…”

“Enough, Colonel. We get it. The shape of it isn’t clear, but we’re putting the pieces together. Better late than never. Interviews?”

“Sorry, ma’am, but I’m going to use this meeting to once again ask for permission to deploy SSD units to blockade stations or planets or arrest people. The results, or lack thereof, speak for themselves. The military centers are much more compliant with our investigators and they’re much more compliant because we moved whole battlegroups into orbit around them.”  

“And I’m going to deny that request because the last thing we need are the optics of marching civilians off-”  

“These aren’t civilians, they’re corpos who are smugly refusing to answer or hiding behind lawyers-”

“They’re still *goddamn civilians*-”

A less than discrete cough from one of the figures on the call. He’s not the only one not wearing a uniform, but he’s the only one who could be called a civilian. When the call’s attention turns to him Byron Montague spreads his hands placatingly.  

“I do appreciate the Vice Admiral’s tireless efforts to defend our rights, but the Major’s request appears to have some merit to it. We’ve- hell, *I’ve* observed similar behaviour across the years.” 

Of all the attendees, of all the contractors and military personnel, Byron Montague is the one Bains trusts the least. Currently the head of a galaxy-wide anti-corporate legal practice, he’s also The Interest’s representative at this investigation, heading up the Observations teams.  
“And I don’t mean to step out of line, but perhaps there’s a middle ground - a deliciously ironic one.”  

“Go on,” says Bains, eyes narrowed.

“When I was still supporting unions, a lot of corporations - SecCorp especially - would bring in and parade around a lot of muscle. Not just military types, but obviously genetically engineered brutes - excellent for intimidation.”  

“And your suggestion, Mr. Montague?”

“Well, Vice Admiral… how many Operatives are there currently in Sol System Defence?”

Part Two - A Null Station

Lieutenant Commander Renma Jomura leaves the debriefing room, happily accepting the pat on the back from CDF commodore who oversaw the extraction from Diagenes IV. It was a good operation, tightly planned and executed with precision that would make SSD operatives do a double-take. Renma’s proud that the drills he’d forced his re-assembled squad through had paid off, though he admits the cache of Coronand armor his entire unit had been issued was also a contributing factor.  

He’s composing a report on some successful tactics that they’d put together against SecCorp’s seemingly endless ultralights when his peripheral vision catches someone pushing off from their lean against a wall to fall in step with him. *Had there been someone there before?* He wonders as he calmly appraises the person now walking beside him.

“Had a chance to look over your ops in the urban dome, grunt. That was some slick, synchronized shit.”

Renma frowns. The tone is familiar, the voice and face less so. But with operatives you could never tell… “Greer… -san?”  

“You on a first-name basis with any other operators, Jomura? Or any-name, for that matter.”  

“Mmm.” Operatives, or operators as per their gene spec, were a strange, rare group of humans. The gene spec was technically illegal though “reserved for SSD use” might be more accurate as there were specimens around that appeared much younger than the 50-year old ban would indicate.  

“Well, thank you for the compliment. I will pass it on to the squad - your approval would likely mean more to them than the brass’s.”  

They wave their hand, irritated. “Yeah yeah, less of the *hero worship*.”  

“I hardly think valuing combat experienced approval over that of paper pusher’s is hero worship, Greer-san.”  

“Yeah, well, I just want to get ahead of any of that. Also, cut out the honorifics, unless you want me to start rocking the boat for you, *Jomura-denka*.”  

He stiffens slightly before letting out a bemused snort. “It’s hardly a secret. And I am very distant from all that.”  

“Well sure, you’re in the ass-end of nowhere.”  

“Which is exactly how I and the family prefer it.”  

“Careful, grunt. Operators are notorious gossips, you can’t just leave a tidbit out like that and expect me to let it go.”  

Greer looks at him with a cheshire grin spreading across their face, which is mildly terrifying. Having an operative interested in him couldn’t be good for his livelihood. 

He’s about to ask them if their only purpose was delivering that praise when they round a corner into the Null Station’s central communal hub and he comes up short. Looking between a young man and woman whispering agitatedly and Greer, he regards the person beside him with suspicion.  

“Did you… plan this?”  

“Oh, I don’t know about plaaan necessarily.” Their voice curls playfully to match their smile. “But, you know, I get all kinds of intel forwarded to me by Station with all sorts of useful connections made.”  

The younger pair seem to have noticed them and the boy- *young man*, Renma corrects himself - straightens up rigidly, turning to face him. The woman turns more laconically and he notices that her eyes are shut. 

“Jomura Renma-san! I was not aware that you were on board, sir!” Instead of the salute that the woman gives, he goes into a deep bow. His companion turns to him in surprise, but holds her salute nonetheless, her other hand securing a small briefcase behind her back..  

Renma returns both bow and salute. “Maruyama Keiji. It has been some time. Last I was on Earth you were just starting secondary school.”

“Yessir. I recall. You were known for not attending extended family gatherings, so many elders were talking about you.”  Renma can almost feel the sadistic glee radiating off Greer. He turns to them.

“Greer-*san* this is my… well, nephew is probably the least complicated way of putting it. Keiji, this is… Major Greer.” Let him put two and two together if he can. An ununiformed Major with an unclear title? It would scream “operative” to him, but Keiji must just have come out of the academy. Alongside the young Lieutenant next to him. 

Keiji gives a sharp bow to Greer and introduces his companion. “Major Greer, Jomura-san. This is Lieutenant Jennifer Fenwick.”  

The name is familiar to Renma, but he can’t place it. Greer definitely can. “Ahh, the legendary Lieutenant Fenwick. I’ve gotta say Renma, your family does have a way of complicating things don’t they.”  

He has no idea what they mean, but he’s sure he’ll find out eventually.  

“A pleasure to meet you both. However, Keiji and I were nearly done here and I need to report to Captain Bright for piloting assessment.”  

“Oh, this I have *got* to see. I’ll leave you two to catch up and give the lieutenant an escort.”

“Oh that’s not-” Whatever she was going say, Fenwick picks up on something that makes her reconsider. Perhaps it is Greer’s malicious glee. Perhaps it is the intense regret Renma is beginning to feel. Perhaps she simply figured out what Greer is and is doing the sane thing.  

Either way she turns and leaves with Greer, seemingly having no problem navigating the hub.

--

Jenny Fenwick has, in fact, put two and two together. She hadn’t considered the implication of a plain-clothes’d Major until she’d heard Major Greer’s footsteps simply… stop while her voice carried on its way. The change was chilling - Jenny’s hearing is far beyond even the ninety-ninth percentile of human sensitivity but this operative was not making even a whisper of sound as she walked. 

Thankfully, she had other options, and in the din of the hub, it was easy enough to locate the Major, even if they accelerated or decelerated. After a few of these rapid changes in pace, they fell back in line with Jenny. She could feel their gaze on her. 

“Fascinating. I’d heard of human echolocation but didn’t quite believe it.”

“Strictly speaking, Major, it’s not echolocation since I’m not the one producing the trace sound.”  

“Aha. Purely environmental input?”

“Yep.”

“Amazing. How long did it take you to learn that?”  

“Once I figured out I could do it? About six years from when I was eight.”  

Greer gives a low whistle. “Well, never fucking mind me learning that then.”  

“I’m sure you could with enough practice, Major.”  

“I’m busy enough in peacetime Lieutenant. No, this is one *homo apices* trick I’ll leave to you.”

Jenny stops short. Homo apices. *Peak human*. “M- major?”

They move to the side of the corridor and gesture for Jenny to join, to get out of everyone’s way. “What? Don’t think you deserve it?”  

“Major, I’m blind. I’m hardly *peak*.”

“Lieutenant, peak human isn’t a state of being, it’s a descriptor. You’re blind, so functionally *null* in sight. But hearing? Some sixth sense shit? There is literally no one else that can do what you can do, and you achieved it through *practice*.”

Jenny is quiet a for a long moment.  

“C’mon. I know you’re not shy about your competence.”

“But- that’s what they call y-”  

“Yeah, and we wish they fucking wouldn’t. Because *they* use it like we’re some new species, some X-men shit. We were given a massive edge, but any one of us that’s serious about this knows that the best of humanity got here with practice and that one bad day against one really practiced sonuvabitch, we’d lose like anyone else.

“Apices is a term that’s *earned*, one way or another.”

They shrug off from the wall and continue along, with Jenny trailing in their wake.  

-- 

Captain Bright is on the bridge of the *Marlin*, waiting for her. She can feel his regard, feel it slide off her and the best salute she can manage and focus on her erstwhile escort.  

“Lieutenant. Major. Welcome aboard.”

“Thank you, sir.”

“You don’t look a day over sixty, Captain.”

A snort. “Still a comedian, then, Greer. Do you have a purpose or is it just going to be mockery ad nauseam.”  

“The Lieutenant mentioned a ‘piloting assessment’ and my interest was piqued. Not exactly a standard procedure.”  

“No, but I’m not one to trust every tall tale that comes out of the Core.”

“Fair enough.”

He turns towards her. “Lieutenant, I’ll have you run an AR course. It’s for gunships, but given your marks and reputation, I shouldn’t think you will have an issue, even with a corvette of this… age.”

“Age is no barrier to performance, sir.”

Another snort. “How I wish that were true. And cut the flattery, this is a theatre of war, not some posh SSD post.”

“Sir, yes sir!”  

“Take us out, Lieutenant.”

Jenny moves up, to the pilots chair, snapping open her case and unfolding the “helm.” Modelled after Walker neurohelms, this model is something more like a cross between a diadem and cage for her head. She dons it, not even wincing as it snaps in place to her skull’s magnetic receptors. A thin cable connects her to the pilot console and she’s prepared.

“CDF Corvette *Marlin*, requesting launch.”

-- 

Greer watches the motionless woman complete the course and bring the corvette to a halt in space, turning to regard Captain Bright. They wonder if she can “see” Bright’s face. The man’s a bastard, but to his credit he doesn’t let anything slip from in his expression.  

“Exercise complete, sir.”

“Mm. Well done, Lieutenant. Absolutely textbook. I’m pleased that reports from the Core are, for once, not exaggerating the talents of Academy graduates or the SSD. Take us back in.”  

Greer watches Lieutenant Fenwick turn back to her console, watches Bright’s eyes go distant and unconcerned. They weren’t joking about the sixty bit. Marshall Ayim specifically rejected Captain Bright’s resignation and requested that he stay on for one more tour during this periphery war. Bright could have pressed the issue, but obviously Ayim prevailed. But the old man’s age does seem to be wearing on him and they have to wonder if he really knows what he has at his disposal.

“Permission to extend the exercise, Captain?”

He looks them then, sharply. Looks as if he’s going to ask why. But they’ve worked together before and Greer’s not looking like mischief at the moment. “Granted.”  

“Null Station, how many ships are prepared to launch at the moment?”

“Twelve, Greer-*san*.” Oh good. This Station has been up for less than a month and already has an attitude. “Would you like a breakdown?”  

“Unnecessary. The exercise will be in AR.” They look at Fenwick. “Here’s your task, Lieutenant. Network with whichever craft you see fit and to the best of your ability recreate your final in realtime.”

The bridge is silent. Largely in confusion. In Fenwick’s case, dispiritedness.

“Major, I’ve never controlled more than three vessels at once.”  

“That was at the Academy. Like the captain says, this is war. Do more. Be better.”

“Yes… Greer-san.”

They asked for this. Goddammit, they’re going to regret talking to that grunt.

-- 

She turns back to the console, places her hands on it. A deep breath in, and out. Another. She opens the networking client, passing the Marlin’s fleet credentials on, requesting control of nine other ships. In, and out. They launch and she lets them take safe, automated routes as she situates herself in her own mind, clearing room, generating what she calls her Situation Room. Three identical versions of her thoughtself are immediately present and as she sinks into her chair she creates another six from nothing. Before each of them are blank consoles.

In, and out.  

She taps into the sensors of nine other ships and in her Situation Room nine sensor nets come to life in front of nine perspectives.  

In, and out.

“I have control.”

--

On the bridge of the Marlin, the lieutenant slumps in her chair, her head lolled back. Slowly, unevenly her eyelids begin to move, flutter and obey some deep primal need to *see* in the face of such information overload. The eyes beneath aren’t connected to any optic nerve and have no experience focusing on anything and so roll and twitch sightlessly, madly, tracking things that aren’t there, ghosts from the digital world now playing in her mind. The effect is more than a little disconcerting to onlookers and the insane look of it is where Lieutenant Jennifer Fenwick got her moniker.  

Crazy Jenny utters the words, “I have control” and ten ships begin to *dance*.  

# Part Three - The Perfect Empire

“So, in conclusion, High Marshall, it is your opinion that the twenty-sixth quadrant will be fully subdued within twenty-five years?”  

“At our current rate of progress, that is correct, your Imperial Majesty.”

“Mmm,” the hulking throneform of Emperor Kostakiin II raises an appendage to scratch at the side of his face. “Longer than was initially estimated, but well under the catastrophizing of some. Very good, High Marshall. I commend you and your warriors on this work for our Empire and authorize the necessary expenditures to continue the war.”

The throne shifts and Kostakiin regards the Conductress Dominant assigned to the High Marshall. 

“Conductress, the length of this campaign will inevitably reduce the available stock of these people for eventual service, to say nothing of how they will regard us in the future. Has your assembly been able to update their estimations of the impact of this war yet?”

The Conductress Dominant bows, hinging her lithe form in two places. “No, your Imperial Majesty. Besides the obvious concomitant problems with the lengthening war, the High Marshall’s warriors - and I wish to be clear: I do not mean this as a criticism of the High Martial specifically - the High Marshall’s warriors are over-protective of Conductresses sent to do the examinations, further hindering the data gathering.”

“Is this true, High Marshall?”

A massive shrug roils through the warform. “I am afraid so, my liege. Pro-Conductress sentiment has ever been on the rise since your Ascension and now we find ourselves in a position where the rank and file are uncomfortable with putting one in harms way. Given the efficacy of these people’s suicidal urges, I cannot say I wholly disagree with their stance.”

If there is any criticism of Kostakiin’s rule it would be that they favored the Conductress Assembly overmuch. Certainly they’d played a key role in his Ascension over the increasingly insane Goromescht, so their preeminence made a certain amount of sense. And indeed, their greater role in society had lead to a higher number of warriors who had mastered death, so military objections to their preeminence were limited. But still, there was criticism.

The Conductress Dominant gives a slight bow, hinging only once. “The Assembly certainly appreciates care for our well-being. But the warriors must not lose sight of the Empire's goals here. We are not simply out to exterminate these people and in order to incorporate them, the Assembly must be able to speak with living specimens.”

“I’m reminded of a bioform that we eliminated early into my reign,” muses Kostakiin. “A very storied one - the Choral Militant. We did away with them because they were meant more as *jailers* of the Conductresses which was hardly respectful of my predecessor. But records show that prior to that role, they were meant as bodyguards.”  

The High Marshal shifts uneasily, but as if reading his mind, Emperor Kostakiin continues, “Now, earlier Choral Militants were part of the Assembly, but that doesn’t align with Counter-Reformation divisions of labour or power. In the interests of maintaining that division, I propose restarting genofacture of the Choral Militant strain, this time under the auspices of the Military, rewriting their intentions back to being bodyguards.”  

“I would welcome this responsibility, your Imperial Majesty,” the High Marshal bows deeply.  

“If we can ensure that their intentions are correctly applied, I see no reason for the Assembly to not applaud these efforts. It may further delay our data gathering, but future efforts should be accelerated. Thank you, your Majesty.”

“Excellent. I do so enjoy when everything comes together,” Emperor Kostakiin gestures an assistant over to the High Marshall, noticing another hurry in. “You will be authorized to work with the Pools in order to genofact the Choral Militants. See to it that the process begins immediately - today if possible. You may go.”

As the High Marshal leaves, the Emperor gestures forward the new assistant.  

“Speak.”  

“Oh Imperial Majesty. A priority petition for audience has been received from one Conducturess Kdiza, having returned her patrol vessel on Choral Authority.”

The throne straightens, flaring out banners in interest. “Really? Kdiza… where have I heard that name before…”  

“Conductress Kdiza was on regular rotation with a patrol under the command of one Captain Krulrik. Before her rotation came up, she was studying with the Choral Masters in Ytann.”  

“Ytann… oh yes! The young prodigy who led that excellent concert when we were visiting. And she came back with Choral Authority? What of this Krulrik?”  

The assistant looks uncertain. “By all reports he was not with the ship when it returned.”  

“Hmm. Well, we’ll have the story from her. She may attend.”  

--

Conductress Dominant Yreza watches the young Kdiza brought before the Emperor. So lucky, this one. First complimented on her Choir skills in Ytann, now before the Imperial Presence. Her studies are far from done, but this progress marks her of interest. Perhaps she’ll take control of the young conductress’s career henceforth.  

She curls into a bow denoting her low station, hinging four times, almost enough to curl into a ball and the Emperor gives her permission to rise, and give her report. Yreza tunes out the introduction, unconcerned with the trivialities and nonsense of the warriors. A deep space patrol was of pathetically small consequence, so she hopes Kdiza made use of her Authority well, else that would be it for her.  

“The aliens’ machines were better controlled than what Krulrik expected, of better makes than what he had, but had he requested Choral assistance, I have little doubt he would have crushed them.”  

“Mmm.”  So far the Emperor did not look impressed.  

“Then their ship launched another vessel, disposable from the looks of it and immediately choral readings went… off.”

“Off?” The Emperor prompted.

“Yes, your Imperial Majesty. I am too junior to explain or understand the exact waveforms, even having examined what codexes I could on my way back. I thought that perhaps it might be a jammer of some kind, but in hindsight, I believe the Choir were reacting to the presence on board that vehicle.”

“Mm. Very few species have managed anything like a jammer. But go on, what presence was this?”  

She hesitates. “When it landed, destroying the groundship, and tearing its way out... the aliens’ psyches reacted to it.”

Now Kdiza has both the attention of the Emperor and Yreza. A machine that could affect alien minds? Perhaps similar to the Choir?

“As soon as it became visible to the aliens and our warriors… the Choir began screaming. I lost total control over it. It was fully deaf to my workings and when I attempted to connect with their forms… the crew report I began to scream as well. I could feel what they felt, what the machine was… *thinking*. It was a thinking machine, my Emperor and it thought of naught but fear, blood and death. It was a… a demon.”  

“EVERYONE OUT OF THE ROOM!” bellows Conductress Dominant Yreza, startling even the Emperor with her volume. Assistants, functionaries and warriors bolt at the command in her voice and Kdiza quails before her advancing form. As her Emperor looks on she stalks up to the slight Conductress, forcing herself not to spear her through and lift her up. 

Instead she hisses, “Where did you hear of the Machine Heresy?”
