+++
title = "Episode 19 Intro - Recovery"
description = ""
weight = 20
+++

She stares at the figure, bleeding and hunched painfully. For all that pain, its currently motionless, helmeted head cocked to one side. The protective ceramic has been shattered on the other, a glancing shot by some too-large gun hauled around in a rig by some SecCorp soldiers - murderers. Slowly, it lowers an arm held out for silence. 

“They’ve retreated a significant ways off this time. Don’t think they like getting ambushed every time they try to take this room. Which means the next one is going to suck.”

The operative, which the figure obviously was, removes their helmet. An angular face glares out at the world from behind short hair, not giving anything away.  

“Shouldn’t you- shouldn’t you be wearing the helmet, ah, Oper-” little Senza starts, almost snidely.

“Just Greer. With the damage to the sensors, it’ll be more of a distraction. I’ll take the win and just move faster next time.”  

It’s hard to imagine this person moving faster. When the SecCorp kill team had kicked down the door to her apartment, Harumiya Suzuki was certain of her doom, and endeavoured to put her tea down with as much dignity as her trembling hands could manage. Then, out in the hall, a soldier was kicked into a wall hard enough to crunch and the rest of the team quickly died in a spray of blood and bullets. She’d barely gotten through thinking to tell her granddaughter not to upset any of the soldiers with crude talk before it was over.  

Subsequent assaults and counter-assaults saw this Greer person take wounds - inhuman speed aside, no one can dodge that much fire pointed in one direction.

“Greer-san-” an annoyed scowl passes over the face of the warrior, “-not that we don’t appreciate your intervention on our behalf, but perhaps there is some way out of this?”  

“Yeah, it was supposed to be at your balcony half an hour and three assaults ago. I’m guessing that’s not going to swing around.”  

“Good to know CDF efficiency can be relied upon as usual,” mutters Senza.

The operative shoots the teenager an amused look, hardly insulted. “I dunno, I think getting into a SecCorp VIP holding block in the middle of a planetary assault before you two got iced was pretty good. Fifty-fifty on the mission so far.”

“You’ll forgive us if we’d prefer the other fifty to come up in our favour as well.”  

“That’s legit.” Wincing, Greer stretches, forcing themself through movements that have to be ruinous on their injured body. They move to the balcony and peak over, surveying the ruined city. First obscenely over-equipped pirates and now the CDF had besieged Bridewell, though from the newscasts, SecCorp had done a sufficient job of seeing both off.  

“Alright, I’ve got a harebrained plan, but I’m going to need some information from you two first,” they say, turning back and crouching before the two Suzukis. 

“Whaddya wanna know?” Senza asks, looking askance at the operative.  

“Which of you is the higher-value target… i.e. which has been leaking Corpo data to the CDF?”  

Harumiya’s eyes dart guiltily towards Senza, only to see her granddaughter looking at her the same way. Greer glances between them, pointing first at one, then the other and then back, an enormous cheshire grin spreading on their face.   

“Oh, this is too good! And too bad! But sooo good. Oh my god. What luck, what shitty fucking luck.”

Packing away Senza’s sudden bout of morality, Harumiya asks, “What do you mean?”

“Well, I was GOING to disguise myself like one of you, letting the two of you jump off with my jump-pack, assuming that they’d be distracted enough by the chance to confirm a kill on the HVT, but now we know why they’ve got a murder stiffy for the both of you. God! Your entire family has to be one massive pain in SecCorp’s ass.”

They shake their head, “My kinda people.”  

“So glad we pass muster,” Senza scowls.  

“Should be,” Greer says, their head snapping up, looking out the ruined door. “Else I might not do the stupid shit I’m planning.”

A few seconds later and Harumiya can hear the clanging that must have tipped Greer off. Something heavily armored was making its way up the stairs. She had enough time to see SecCorp yellow turn into the hall from the service stairwell before Greer was shoving the pair of them into a corner and hurling a couch over them for cover.

--

They ache. Ache and burn. They’ve been fighting almost non-stop for half an hour and intermittently for over a day getting here. Even a genetically engineered body has its limits. *Especially* a genetically engineered body. They need calorically dense food and liquid jam-packed with enzymes and electrolytes. Maybe a bottle of rum, take the edge off the gunshot wounds. But the menacing head of the Fire Wasp’s flamer pokes around the corner from the stairs and like a shot they’re off.

There’s electricity in their veins now, a cocktail of adrenaline and combat hormones. They *know* they’re moving faster than most humans can manage but they *feel* so slow, especially as the Fire Wasp rounds the corner, sees them. Greer’s mind moves like sheet lightning, figuring out the best plan of attack when the ceiling above the fire wasp explodes downwards from a breaching charge and an armored figure drops onto the back of the ultralight. The Fire Wasp whips around, trying to throw him off, but this attacker has a hold and a plan. Just before the ultralight slams its back into a wall, crushing it, he leaps clear.  

The ultralight stumbles backwards into the room behind that wall and a deafening BANG*whump* batters Greer’s unprotected ears. *That’s probably gonna need surgery*, they think, wincing as the tear past the CDF trooper, giving him a probably too-hard slap on the shoulder in thanks. 

Greer’s speed takes them around the corner and up most of the wall of the corridor before they kick off and hit squad of corprat soldiers meant to back up the ultralight. Now this was more of a fair fight.

--

Harumiya is thinking how they might still get out of the building with Greer’s suggestion when the sporadic gunfire ends with a commanding voice barking “Down!” and one final torrent of shots. She looks to the terrified Senza and the window by their poorly armored corner. Clambering past the girl awkwardly, old bones aching, she tries to see what the outside is like. If they survive this, she’s going to reconsider her stance on telomere therapy. 

Then she hears Greer.  

“Ok, Harumiya, Senza, I’m coming in with someone, don’t panic, he’s CDF.”

The operative returns with an armored man a good three inches shorter. His helmet is intact, held under one arm, presumably to appear less intimidating. He bows briefly,

“Lieutenant Commander Jomura, Suzuki-san. We will be assisting in your extraction.”

Harumiya Suzuki gets halfways to being irritated at the slight bow when she notices the slim, *tsuba*-less wakizashi. And more importantly the simple chrysanthemum emblazoned on it. Immediately she snapped into a bow towards the man, trying to gesture to Senza to do the same. She, of course, did not, confused at the sudden respect shown the man and Greer’s sudden, howling laughter. 
