+++
title = "Episode 20 Outro - Silver Lining"
description = ""
weight = 21
+++

Eight Colonial Defense Forces ship trudged their way back to the Bridewell system's jump point. Having lost more than half their number, the recovery of 2 VIPs would be considered negligible and the mission a loss. But in a conference call between the ships captains, it was becoming clear that they'd stumbled onto a terrifying secret.

Commodore Hernand Schlesinger finally removed his hand from his mouth, revealing a sour visage.

"Commodore Saetang, I take it you trust the work of this corvid?"

"Aye, Commodore. Even if I didn't, CDF staff have verified his cleanup of the data. Aside from some fringe readings that are still under... enthusiastic discussion, my crew support Sonorously Sings at Sunset's conclusions."

A nod from the other commodore. "So. We have a pirate faction that can build combat-ready, threat-worthy mechs and now has a weapon that...?"

"Destabilizes the magnetic bottle of a fusion reactor and agitates the plasma to produce a relatively low power detonation in the fusion reactor core."

"Kills fusion reactors."

"That would be completely unrecoverable."

"And it did this at a touch?"

"Yeeeep." 

Danny had to give it to Commodore Schlesinger. Despite the complete lack of an accent, there was a certain German authority that cut through the officers' chatter. "There's no point catastrophizing at this stage. As no one else is highlighting it, I will point out that this only seemed possible because the Bruiser's structure was exposed. Between that and the pirates advancing on First Recon forces with armor-stripping mechs first, I think that indicates that this method could not work arbitrarily through mech armor."

Danny nodded, suppressing the thrill he felt at hearing First Recon being baldly acknowledged as a real company by an established officer. "They think they have a one-two punch. But the pilots they have in Revolvers can't deliver on that 'one.' So its not the end of the world."

The assembled officers looked at each other, nodding hesitantly. Danny continued, "This technology is dangerous and we should absolutely dig into it, but we have training regimens that offset it."

He could feel Schlesinger's eyes on him. "You refer, of course, to General Saelim's 'Martial Meditations.'"

"Of course." Danny said, straightening and looking his counterpart in the eyes. Schlesinger nodded. 

"I have given them some attention and earlier dismissed them as fringe tactics and doctrine, unsuited to the methods of the SSD and CDF. Now, facing these foes, I better understand their usecase."

His eyes flash up, little blue chintz of determination. "I'm sure you will inform Marshal Ayim of what happened here and I think I know how you'll frame it. Let me assure you, I will back any calls to introduce more melee-oriented mech training. It is... important to me and others in the CDF, however, that-"

Danny cut in, direct but not arrogant, "Please, Commodore Schlesinger. I'm not about to call the CDF incompetent for not adopting the methods of a retired SSD General. We get so little of SSD resources out here to begin with, assuming that what mech units the CDF could put together could drill on General Saelim's recommendations would be ridiculous. I think there's plenty of room to demonstrate that the CDF have identified a problem, identified how to solve it and request information from SSD to that end."

Commodore Schlesinger leaned back in his chair, crossed his arms. Danny could swear there was something of a smile forming on his features. "In that case, Commdore Saetang, let us jointly put in for training material for our mech units."

"Agreed. In the meantime...?"  

A sardonic smile broke out in full on Schlesinger's face. "If you could spare some personnel to do up training for our people, based on their extant experience, we would appreciate it."

"Of course, sir," Danny flicked a casual salute at his senior. And then almost started from someone else's voice.

"Sirs... one thing I don't think anyone has considered... how are we to identify these threats?" Danny took in the person asking the question - young, hijabi, new to her lieutenant rank, wondering at her meaning. And then he realized the problem.

"You all don't have the Pirate CVI."

"They have an entire CVI?!"

"Hell. Ok. We need to get you all set up at Moonbase Alpha."

"What the hell is Moonbase Alpha?"

--

"I think you should stay here."

Renma manages to not leap out of his skin this time when Greer ambushes him in the hall. The hall with no visible niches or other hiding spots. This is a corvette, for god's sake. They're not well known for being expansive. 

The operative falls in step with him and he has to make an effor to not look them over. Greer was shot and blown to shit on Bridewell and their face still shows signs of bruising, but their stride is long and easy and there's no sign of pain. Perhaps they look a touch gaunter? He wasn't sure how operative fast healing worked, but given how much Greer had shovelled into their face first thing on borad, he assumed it consumed a lot of calories.  

"Here. On this ship." It's halfway to a question.

A shrug. "Recon-in-Force, actually. But sure, stay on this corvette. Unless you think it would be awkward with Fenwick and your nephew's relationship?"

"I doubt it, unless you brew something up specifically to mess with me. But I'm still not clear on why I should stay here."

Greer's expression flickers uncertainly, barely a facial twitch. "Call it an interest in your professional development. You're one of the foremost experts on anti-ultralight tactics in the CDF at this point. Recon-in-Force tends to encounter them at an outsized rate. It makes sense to further develop your skills here, and Recon could use more infantry assets."

"Mmm. Yes, I saw that Second Recon is completely lacking in ground forces. They are certainly running... very light out here."

"They should be getting more resources. Or building their own. I'm not up to date on the situation this far into the Rim."

"The shadowy operative not being completely omniscient? Shocking," his tone is light and teasing and gets him straight-armed right into a wall. Greer's smile is genuine, with a bare touch of 'don't fuck with me.'

"Ass. But yeah. Stay out here. Build up a squad or two. Spread the knowledge around. Hit SecCorp and the pirates hard when you can."  

"Mmm. Everything you say makes sense. But there's a little problem of my orders..."

"I'll take the Suzukis back, don't worry about it. I'll even take your report, I'm so generous."

"Yes, generous. And I suppose for standing orders-"

"Renma." Greer stops and turns to face him. "I will order you to stay out here if it makes you feel better. No one's going to countermand an operator's orders."

Lietenant Commander Renma Jomura considers the operative before him. Taller than him by a few inches, leaner. He's not sure he's ever seen their true face, malleable over time as it is. But from their brief interactions, he feels like he's gotten to know them a little. "Is that... I will of course follow your orders, Greer. I'm just... not sure about their intent."

"Let me worry about intent, Renma. You worry about staying out here and getting good."

*And staying safe.* They don't say it, but now he's sure he's reading the subtext correctly.

"Aye aye, Greer-san."

They shove him again and punch him in the shoulder for good measure when he laughs.