+++
title = "Episode 21 Intro - Spoils"
description = ""
weight = 22
+++

“How are the refits to the Melior coming?” Deckard True wasn’t a particularly stealthy man, but the Red Banners mechbay was not a quiet place. So the sudden question prompted the rotund man working at a console near the Melior to nearly leap out of his skin.  

“Oh, uh, Mr. True, sir! They’re coming along, uh, nicely sir. We’ll make the deadline. All that’s left are the bottle-poppers in the knee units that you requested sir.”

A grunt from True as he looks up at the massive red and black mech. “Good work. Make sure your team knows how I appreciate the last minute work.”

“Ah, thank you sir. I’ll be sure to let them know.”  

The technician stood around nervously for a moment and then went back to reviewing the data console, occasionally glancing at the man whose attention was still solely on his mech. Deckard True wasn’t stealthy, and didn’t look imposing either. Shorter than average man, but pretty typical for someone from the Rim, with brown skin and distantly asian features he looked like the stereotypical colonial, with a family background so mixed and distant from earth, the old terms didn’t mean much any more.  Not the sort of person you’d instinctively flinch from.  

Unless you’d seen him with a corporate prisoner or raging across a battlefield in the Melior.  

There was a reason he was hooked up with a pirate crew, instead of trying to run a revolution by himself. 

He was finally distracted from the work on the Melior by an approaching figure. A Red Banner officer, easy to distinguish from the rest of the Blood Banners by virtue of wearing something like a uniform. A casual salute passed between the men and with a jerk of his head, True set them walking away from the technician.  

“Well? Can we get a team there?”

“It’ll be close, and they might be undergunned. But yeah. If it’s just a smash and grab they should be able to handle it.”

“How undergunned?”

“No mechs, light vehicle support, one gunship.”

“Damn.”

“Yeah. On the other hand, they’ve got the Heraldry upgrade, so there’s no way this’ll be traced back to us.”  

“Unless Concetta's forces get there before us.”  

“Unlikely. They’re shipping out with a Monitor.”  

“Christ. Can’t wait to find out what the hell this corprat knows that’s so important.”  

“Yeah. How’d you find out about this anyways?”

Deckard gave his subordinate a cutting glance out the side of his eye. 

“Right. Shutting up.”

“Good. Send the team in, I want that asset off Garrity and at a black site ASAP.”

Another casual salute and True was left alone. One last look over his shoulder at the Melior and he was off.  

--

*hours earlier*

Deckard True woke blearily to the sound of people speaking in the next room over and immediately froze. In the enormous pile of pillows and sheets that passed for Concetta's bed he slowly opened his jaw and popped his ears, straining to hear what was being said."

"...want raids against two or three SecCorp worlds... ...ly one with followup, make them think *that's* the target... ...get to Garrity and fucking flatten Ahmed Xu."

"...es ma'am."

"Good boy... ...et us some of the bottles from Sunnydown and them fruits True likes..."

A few moments later the heavy plod of Concetta Amalfi entered the room and the lights flicked on. 

"C'mon sweetie, rise and shine. We gots some raids to plan."

True groaned, only half acting, and rolls over in bed, throwing an arm up to cover his eyes.  

"Remind me to never drink with you that late."

"Never," responded the big redhead with a grin. "We got some hair of the dog on the way, and some of your *healthy* breakfast. Now get your ass outta bed or I'll drag you out myself."

Having literally been dragged *into* the bed, True had no doubt that she was capable of dragging him out, probably by an ankle to dangle naked in the air cartoonishly. 

"Fine," he muttered, sitting up and rubbing a hand over his face.

"Great," Concetta Amalfi said, picking up a tablet and flopping down beside him in her too-small robe. "So I was thinking we'd hit three targets, with this one as the 'real' one that gets a followup, what with you being so concerned with our 'wasteful' deployments..."