+++
title = "Episode 22 Outro - Solutions Acquired"
description = ""
weight = 23
+++

“‘Nother easy run, Commo.”

Captain Daud Roam frowns slightly at the man’s use of that weird diminutive, but lets it slide. Ever since he’d managed to put together this little privateer/escort force and proven its value, the other captains had been floating the idea of calling him Commodore. He wasn’t a fan, and let them know it, vocally. They’d backed off, but some still prodded at him with similar titles. 

“That dissatisfaction in your voice, Ammand?”

“Maybe. Maybe that and a little weariness. Felt good to blow raiders to kingdom come but now they’re getting wise. Wary.”

“Mm-hmm. That a bad thing?”

“You’ve seen the numbers, Roam. They can’t support forces like this without constant raiding or an industrial base. And an industrial base means workers of some kind. Which means mouths to feed. Which means an agricultural base. Which-”

“Yes. The pirates have at least a planet or a system that’s supplying them.”

“We’re saving merchants and sailors, but look at the size of this flotilla you’ve got. Tell me we wouldn’t be better off trying to find the pirates’ base of operation.”

“And then what happens to the shipping lanes? Stray and wildcat colonies are in a bad way with the CDF being distracted by SecCorp’s stupid uprising.”

Ammand de D. makes a sour face over the comms. He understands. He just feels better when the enormous guns of his light cruiser are blasting ships to pieces. 

From the other console in the _Feathers_’ cockpit, his brother pipes up, “Wormspace breach ahead. Single vessel, corvette class. And I think… yeah, it’s making no attempt to hide what it is. Blasting SecCorp IFF.”

“Heading?”

Idi looks at him like, _really_? “Coming down our throats or headed towards the planet. Kind of hard to tell from this angle.”

“Mm-hmm. Captain Roam to all flotilla and merchantmen, come to heading 1410 and carry on. Let’s get out of the the corpo’s way and see what he wants.”

They get their answer a little over an hour later in the form of a comms request from the Corvette, now resolving as _The Bee_. “Nonstandard name for a SecCorp vessel.”  

“It’s also not a model in any CVI. Looks like its out of the new Mitsui yards coreward though.”

“I’ll trust your eye for these things, little brother. So. A SecCorp Vessel made by Mitsui and it wants to talk. How are we feeling?”

“Lucky, as always.”

“Very well. Open up a line.”

The face that fills the commscreen is too close to it, too eager and too young. A girl that can’t be more than sixteen with huge round classes peers out at them.. 

“Hey, you’re that dude associated with the seedies, yeah?”

Daud shares a glance with Idi. “I am Captain Roam and I’ve taken commissions from them to hunt pirates, yes. Who are we speaking with?”

“Trisha Oum. Look, I need information on a pirate and for, uh, obvious reasons I can’t go ask the CDF. You’re not, like, with them now, right?”

“No, I’m with the Independent Merchant Protection Service at the moment.”

She mouths for a second and then beams. “That’s _delightful_. But yeah, you willing to deal?”

Daud leans back in his command chair. One reason he’d never signed up with CDF was he couldn’t let go of the relative luxury of private craft and the massive command chair was no exception. He kicked a leg up onto a console and crossed his arms.  

“Why don’t we build a little trust first, Trish Oum. Why’s a kid out here on the Rim in a SecCorp Mitsui ship?”

“Ooh, noticed that did you?” She finally moves back from the camera, flopping back onto what looks like a pillow nest. She’s dressed in a too-large graphic tee and leggings and her black hair is tied up in a high bun. “My family designs stuff for various corporations. SecCorp started being our biggest customer a few years back. It _sucks_ but I’m not old enough to do anything about it yet. What I _can_ do is ask for a chance to prove myself, charge the cost of a new ship to SecCorp and come out here investigating why a pirate lord is using jump jets that we haven’t finished testing.”

Daud blinks and Trisha Oum fiddles with a tablet. “This one.” 

A video collage of the Melior fills the screen, and black and red and violence. The footage is in various qualities and resolutions, most of it coming from the Battle of Segura.

“I know the jump jets on that thing. I got to work on them a bit. They’re obviously not performing at one-hundred percent, but that makes sense if they’re, like, based off a prototype. Now, prototype or not, I need to find out where he got those. A) because fuck off those are ours and b) because the source of the leak is a problem one way or another.”

“Because if its your family, that looks really bad. But if it’s SecCorp…”

“...that’s bad on a completely different scale.” Idi finishes. 

The girl gives Idi finger guns.

“So what are you proposing, Ms. Oum?”

Her face immediately scrunches up. “Wow yeah, don’t like that.” She looks off screen. “What do you mean I’m technically Captain Oum? God, that’s even worse. Anyways! Proposals. I give you access to a brand new, top-of-the-line Mitsui corvette with Oum-grade upgrades, SecCorp credits, and my not-inconsiderable design expertise. You get me an introduction and not-shot-on-sight with these Recon-in-Force guys so I can get more information on this asshole.”

Captain Daud regards the screen, eyes lidded. Then he looks out the viewport at the relatively huge shape of Ammand de D.’s light cruiser and thinks back on their conversation.  

“Alright. I’m leaning towards believing you. I’ll have to put it in front of the rest of the Service, but if they agree, hell, I’ll do you one better, Oum.”

--

“Hell of a maiden voyage,” Marshal Ayim grits out as another wave of missiles hammers its way through the _Agrotera_’s point defenses. They’re shockingly accurate for pirates, as evidenced by the monitor’s hail mary barrages against the planetary defense station. Those have stopped as the CDF fleet has eaten through the monitor’s escort and so the monitor turns its absurd number of weapons against them. 

“Sir, we have the angle.”

“Alright. Point defense batteries to half, life support to minimum, and all remaining power directly to engines!”

Some of the crew look at him wildly, but to their credit his bridge carries out his orders. Some of the monitor’s missile batteries will have reloaded by now, but not enough to incapacitate the battlecruiser. And all that power to the engines causes the massive ship to lurch in space. Life support systems, specifically inertial compensators, strain to fight the g-forces that the Agroterra experiences as it goes from reversing up and away from the monitor to hurtling straight at it.

Well, basically across its disc. Reversing a capital ship like the _Agrotera_ would never have cleared the big guns before the monitor’s guided missiles tore it and most of its fleet apart. But now, speeding past at a good combat speed, it can get clear more easily. _The captain of the monitor must think we’re making a break for it_, Ayim realizes as the missile batteries refocus on other ships in the fleet.

Ayim watches their distance from the monitor climb with their speed. Judging as best he can, he waits and then orders, “Kill engines, redistribute power as normal and all power to port maneuvering thrusters until we’re facing the monitor again.”

The battlecruiser spins around languidly, taking longer than Ayim would like to come about, while the monitor barrages the remains of his fleet with missile fire. While it spins, he orders gunnery, “Pop the housing on the Cannons. We’re almost in position.”

Magnetic Accelerator Cannons are exactly what they sound like. Gauss rifles writ large. Huge paired tines that look more delicate than traditional ballistic cannons but are no less armoured. More expensive though, more expensive by far. For all that, its ammunition is fairly inexpensive. Standard rounds are just huge chunks of ferromagnetic material. Atmospheric rounds are the same, but aerodynamic. Penetrators are diamond-tipped. And canister shot sheers apart relatively quickly from the barrel (which, because it’s a rail gun, is almost 5 kilometers out). But no one calls it that. Especially no one who’s seen the Battle of Segura.

As they overshoot the 5k mark, Marshal Ayim continues,

“Comms: Order the carriers to scramble bombers and spacefighters. Targets forthcoming. Top fifty percent damaged destroyers and light cruisers to follow the _Agrotera_ to Garrity. Remaining ships to guard the carriers. Oh, and guns: Load the buckshot.”

Moments later the _Agrotera_’s four MACs fired and turned a multi megaton, heavily armed, poorly armored spacecraft into swiss cheese. Ayim leans back in his command chair and orders them about. 

“I trust the flyboys know what to do. Keep yourselves alive. I have a corprat to see about a space station.”
