+++
title = "Episode 23 Intro - Escalation"
description = ""
weight = 24
+++

**SIL Report excerpts: Battle of Garrity**

The presence of a battlecruiser in the CDF line was ultimately what cost us our resources on Garrity. The CC _Agrotera_ appears to be a standard Epithetos-class out of the shipyards of Io, but research shows no such ship ever having been built there. While possible that it is a refit qualifying for a new IFF based on SSD Logistical Order 112, we have previously been successful in tracking the paper trail required for such a rename. The inclusion of its four Magnetic Accelerator Cannons give us reason that it might have been a refit, however should more be spotted, it may instead point to an Epithetos-M2 class being laid down. In that vein, it makes sense that the _Agrotera_ would be loaned out to the CDF for combat trials as there is no other extant conflict in the Sphere where a battlecruiser could effectively be tested. 

Whether this indicates an escalation of arms is a decision best left to SecCorp Command as Intelligence and Logistics do not believe there is sufficient evidence of Sol System Defense upgunning the CDF, at least where capital...

...

...presence of a Monitor-class indicates another raid by the Blood Banners, but the lack of their accustomed follow-up is of note. Current speculation is that the presence of CDF capital ships in the area and the speed at which the Monitor was destroyed has made it clear that Monitors cannot hold their own against capital ships, regardless of their weaponry. We find it odd that both the Blood Banners and the CDF inserted forces ahead of their raid to capture a SecCorp employee. The Blood Banners have, with various degress of success, managed this with engineers and researchers over the past year to further supplement their technological advancement but the choice of Ahmed Xu is puzzling at this time. The former employee has not been an engineer in over two decades and he does not appear to have been of much talent, transitioning quickly to management. CDF interest in him is equally puzzling as he does not match the profile of individuals of interest to them (See: Reports on Segura and viability of continued tolerance of Liang-Chen in the Corporate Partnership). Further investigation, including a deep dive of his daily habits has been authorized in case this points to blossoming anti-corporate sentiment within our employee...

...

... of most concern: existence of CDF stealth technology. Ground forces in Garrity Dome were overcome by two mechs with varying degrees of sensor obfuscation, resulting in the loss of three tanks, two Wardens and surface damage to the Grand Warden. After-action review of footage as well as analysis of the tactics in use lead us to believe that this is once again the CDF's new Recon In Force division - the custom Ironsides is distinctive despite what engineers are referring to as a "camo cloak." The cloak itself inhibited visual targeting and acquisition with a chameleon effect while minorly dampening the signature of the mech. Troublesome as that is by itself, the second unit appears to have significantly more stealth technology incorporated. Only detectable to direct sensors, this unit does not match any existing profile or foundry style within the Sphere. Initial examination of the unit's performance reveals several weaknesses in the design, but combat intelligence cautions us against conflating pilot error for design failures. Regardless, the sheer effectiveness of the stealth capabilities of this unit are extremely concerning, as is the implication that the CDF developed this unit in-house, without SSD intervention. 

--

**QEC comms to Marshall Frederico Ayim**

...not going to ask where you got a battlecruiser from, Frederico, as I'm sure it's where you got _an entire fleet of light carriers_, but I want to extend congratulations and regrets. SSDI isn't halfways done their investigation and while SecCorp Core is being extremely transparent, I'm of a mind with Admiral Bains - that might be a trap. If SecCorp Rim has the capability to mount a full-on armed insurrection with their resources, we have to be absolutely certain something similar is not going to happen in the Core. I know it sounds dismissive of your issues and plays right into their hands, but you've got less than two billion people to worry about there - we have over twenty to be concerned about in the core. We absolutely cannot spare a Fleet with a Second Corporate War hanging over our heads.  

Further to that, there's politicking going on, suggesting that arming the CDF will simply escalate the situation _into_ a Second Corporate War, but personally I think that's horseshit. It _is_ hampering the transfer of materiel, but I'm releasing to you all the IP I can without parliamentary approval, effective immediately. So long as you can build it, its yours.

Bains has Counterintelligence working on how to best use that SecCorp tidbit and hopefully we can release some operatives to execute on it somehow.

--

**Memo within SecCorp Command**

The CDF is demonstrably receiving materiel from Sol System Defense. See: _Agrotera_, stealth technology which is ludicrous to think could be home-grown. If we're going to win this we need to win it *now* before the SSD becomes more heavily involved. 