+++
title = "Episode 24 Intro - Prodigal"
description = ""
weight = 24
+++

"The planet managed to throw off the pirates' first assault and then promptly sent for help. We're lucky we were in the right system to catch their courier. Their defenses don't look like they're going to hold."

The IMPS fleet are on approach to a successful colony in the Core-ward Rim, not yet redlining their engines. They needed *something* of a plan, even if their numbers had been bulked out by a startling number of freighters converted to troop transports and missile carriers.

"Alright, de D., you've got the orbital fight. This system didn't seem to warrant a monitor, but go easy on the missiles. If there was a 2nd wave, there'll be a third. Atmo-capable ships on me, we're doing a hard burn past their sub-caps and right into the atmosphere."

A chorus of ayes respond to Daud's orders. "Freighters keep close and we'll cover you. Physically if need be."

He turns to Idi. "No, you can't join them. The Manta needs a complete overhaul, I don't care what patchwork job you did on it, it's not fit to fly."

"Ok, okay, but like. What if I just... dropped bombs *from* the Feathers."

Daud stares at his little brother deadpan and slowly pushes the throttle up, leading the charge past the pirates orbital defenses. He doesn't break eye contact for minutes, until they start to approach the outer screen of the pirates' spacecraft forces. "Just fucking take control of the turrets."

"Oui oui, mon commodore."

"I will physically pitch you from the hatch."

--

"This is Captain Roam of the Independent Merchant Protection Service, calling any Logorrhan colonial forces. We are prepared to offer assistance. I repeat, this is Captain Roam of the Independent Merchant Protection Service, We are prepared to offer assistance, is anyone there?"

It's hard work getting through Star Era ECM, even the shoddy stuff used by pirates, but their method of quantity over quality was particularly effective against forces still breaching atmosphere. However, the Logorhhan colonists have apparently been paying attention to things in the wider galaxy and the *Feathers* sensors detects a powerful microwave beam pass over them and lock on.

"-lo? We can see your ships engaging the pirates so hopefully you're here to help. They've breached the dome and I don't know how long we can hold ou-"

*Damn,* thinks Daud, looking at their trajectory. It's not looking good for the colonists. *Well, at least we'll be able to avenge th-*

"Daud, *The Bee* is pulling ahead. Well, ahead and out of formation."

A frown. "Oum, what are you doing?"

"Getting a clear shot on the dome."

"Nothing on your ship is going to be able to hit that from here-"

Running lights come alive on the underside of the Mitsui corvette. "Not a weapon. Me. Trisha Oum, *Yang Xiao Long*, launching!"

There's a low *boom* and the integrated launch bay on *The Bee* actually *fires* a mech ahead of the descending fleet. Daud and Idi have a second to register it on sensors as YXL-00 and then its gone.

--

Before some pissed off merchants and colonists joined up, IMPS ground forces were limited. A few ex-SSD and CDF squads, not full strength. Plenty of heavy weapons, but just no numbers. They were plenty willing to train up the colonists and the vast open bays of the freighters were useful, even as they were being converted en-route to missions. Colossal fabrikators ran day and night to build out quarters, armories and other fabrikators. On other freighters, they self-cannibalized their entire structures to convert them to missile launchers, answering the threat of Monitors with miniature versions of themselves. Several bolted salvageable parts of monitors *to* themselves.  

But even as their fabrikators build heavy vehicles, they still barely had mech support to challenge the pirates, relying on Idi's Manta and other air assets to support their limited Troopers and one Leatherback. Mechs out of date when the Hauberi-Coronand War started. And then Trisha Oum showed up.

There's a still-glowing crater with scattered wrecks where the *Yang Xiao Long* impacted and Daud can trace the trail of destruction from there, usually from the charred remains of vehicles, some embedded as they are into the sides of buildings stories up. He follows it, saluting at colonial and IMPS ground forces, until he finds the lithe mech at the colony's administration center, sitting down, arms arranged to allow Oum to clamber down. They draw up close, but not too close. He can feel the heat of the damn thing from here, even if its not physically glowing anymore. 

It's some work to get around the bulk of it into the admin center, clambering over the shattered staircase, but he manages, gives Idi a hand over some of it. He finds Trisha Oum sitting on an overturned desk in her pilot suit, talking amicably with a young colonial in a incongruously white coat.

"Hey, Roam. This is Turner, he's in charge these days."

"Hello Captain Roam, I'm glad the makeshift microwave transmitter managed to get through the ECM. We'd have been goners if it weren't for your quick action."

"That was all Ms. Oum, Mr. Turner. Though we're glad we were able to clean up their landing forces."

"Ah sorry, it's Turner... Goodlove? Sorry, I'm terrible with names," beams Trisha. He waves the apology off.

"I'm not particular, you all saved our bacon, you can call me whatever you want."

Daud takes in the gleeful grin on Trisha's face and comments wryly, "I think you're going to live to regret that Mr. Goodlove."

"Well, I'm going to live. Trish- Ms. Oum *did* insist we show you something though."

"Yeah. Sorry Captain, the *Yang Xiao Long* isn't big on salvage or keeping things in any recognizable condition, but the Logorhhan's have plenty from the first raid and they've found..."

She looks at Turner, eyebrows raised expectantly. He frowns and pushes the glasses up on his face. "We're not entirely sure yet, but it appears to be a combination IFF masker and... well, active camo."

Slowly Daud drags his hand down his face. "Great. Wonderful. What the hell."

"Ohh, you haven't even heard the worst part."

"Why would you tell me that, Oum."

"We were interested in how it worked, but the effect immediately stopped on mech or vehicle destruction. But then we found a completely functional, running mech, piloted by this... well, extremely fat pirate. He'd died of a heart attack in the middle of the battle and so we were able to take a look at the source of this, what they call *Heraldry*."

He takes a vial out of a pocket and holds it up. There's something like fog or dust suspended in it and Daud has no idea what he's supposed to be looking at until Idi swears. "They're fucking nanomachines."