+++
<<<<<<< HEAD
title = "Episode 24 Intro - New World"
description = ""
weight = 25
+++

"And we're out here why again?" mutters one of his squadmates. Captain Jorge Bensson of SecCorp Mech Command frowns.

"Because we've got reports of unidentified vehicles, probably mechs, out here that our forward sensors can't pick up. And Intelligence is pretty sure the seedies have some kind of stealth tech, so we're doing our jobs and investigating. Idiot."

There's a brief burst of muttering that's muted by the comms noise detection and finally the captain has some peace and quiet. The valley up ahead is heavily forested, but getting into position should give them good overwatch of the whole thing. With a Grand Warden, two Bruisers and two Shrikes, along with support IFVs, Dome Control is confident he can deal with whatever is out here, if anything. They're pretty confident in the fact that a heavy lander couldn't have touched down without them knowing, so a few drop ships at most are expected.  

"Got something like a contact, captain, in the riverbed."

*The riverbed? That's exposed.* "Bring it up."

A hazy sensor profile comes up and he recognizes almost immediately. "What the hell is one of our MBT's doing out here?"

"Dunno sir."

"Shrikes, move up and get direct sensor locks on that thing."

The light mechs move up and he send the IFVs with a Bruiser as escort wide to support or flank if this is a trap, while he and the other Bruiser head up the hill. The Shrikes lock on and IFF comes back positive with a serial number and everything. Shortly, they're able to hit the MBT with laser comms. 

"Oh thank god, we're glad you're here. I knew they'd send someone eventually," comes a voice over the comms.

"Identify yourself, please," Captain Bensson asks.

"Corporal Louisa Ho, Dome 2 defense, sir. We got separated during exercises when our nav malfunctioned and then we, ah, had an accident that landed us here."

Bensson crests the hill overlooking the valley presently, finally able to take the situation in personally. A single MBT in SecCorp yellow is thoroughly stuck in the riverbed, its front end buried in mud and water, its turret barely angled to keep it from the same fate.

"How long have you been out here, Corporal Ho?" Bensson taps into the satellite network to verify a missing MBT and the corporal's identity while positioning his forces to encircle the tank. "A little over a week, sir. Water's fine, but rations weren't looking too good. I was really hoping the tank's engine sig would register to those civilian craft that kept passing near, and I guess it finally did when we ramped it."

Bensson takes a look at the MBT's sensor profile, and the vehicle *was* running particularly hot. "No thought of firing your weapons to attract attention, Corporal?"

"Well, we weren't authorized for live fire, sir. But I figured I'd take the disciplinary and fire the lasers if we ran out of rations."

Frowning, Bensson purses his lips, wondering at the corporal's commander's attitude if she was that afraid of a disciplinary action. That, or this corporal had no business leading a tank unit.

"Alright corporal, we'll pull you out." responds Bensson. The MBT's serial number had come back valid and was listed as missing. He sends a jumpjet-equipped Bruiser down to pull the tank out, while putting the Shrikes on patrol. Zooming in on the tank, he can see figures waving and he returns the gesture with the Grand Warden's colossal arm. 

By the time Bruiser is in position, the tank crew have buttoned themselves back in and Bensson is following up to see what happened with his personnel request of Louisa Ho. At almost the same time it comes back negative, the sensor board lights up.

"Conta- aaagh!" A shrike explodes from a strange greenish-blue blast as more contacts come live across the valley. Sensors immediately identify them as light and medium mechs but are unable to classify them, which is really of less interest to the captain as he sets about getting locks on them. About the time when he's about to unleash a missile barrage, the MBT's turret swings around and opens up with both laser cannons, completely decapitating the Bruiser sent to retrieve it.

Snarling, Captain Jorge Bensson hits the fire button and his GW2M opens up with four missile launchers and two MMMLs, blanketing the valley in missile fire. As the explosions roll through a contact pops up in front of him, a slow light mech well within his missile range, but easy meat for his machine guns. Then he gets visual on it and takes in the completely outsized revolver-like cannon affixed to its shoulder and swears.

"Fucking pirates! IFVs! RTB and report, everyone else, form on me and focus down targets." Revolver cannon or not, Bensson's Grand Warden outmassed the light by twice its weight, so he set it into a lumber charge to slam into it. 

The cannon booms with a sound he can feel inside his cockpit and the GW2M *lurches* with the force of the projectile as alarms go off, informing him of an armor breach on his left side. The Revolver dodges to the right to avoid him, but he keeps it in his sights, opening up with MGs, but notices too late the speeding medium behind it, charging him with what looks like a lance. He tries to swing around, but his momentum is too much, and the Bourne's strike digs into his exposed torso. There's an ear-shattering *pop* and his mech goes dark.

A moment of silence, then "What the fuck...?" is all Captain Jorge Bensson has time to utter before the Revolver blows his cockpit to shreds.

--

Slowly, oh so slowly, Admiral Ballabh Kehar closes the lid on his workstation and leans back in his chair. Reading, reviewing and re-reporting on the disaster in the Alshain system was an act so draining for a long while he didn't know what to do with himself except stare into the grey of his office. Long moments pass like this before he gets a hold of himself and turns towards the window, getting out of his chair and approaching it. Out there, the great orb of Earth spun, enmeshed in the crystalline web of orbital elevators, tramways and stations. Sixteen billion people, living and thriving. 

The Alshain system had been home to six hundred million people - a well developed core colony. This... Eater of Worlds had come in, hit the primary planet and spread across the system like a virus. It had taken barely sixteen hours for Alshain Prime to be fully consumed and the destruction of the system was complete within another five days. He still shudders at the visuals that ships fleeing from the system had managed to pass on. The enormous spires of flesh and chitin, mockeries of space elevators. The strike craft shaped like obscene cuttlefish. The vast vats and lakes of liquid that buildings, vehicles and people alike were dumped into. 

One of his granddaughters played a vintage game that represented a monster like this very similarly - but it didn't compare. 

The warning from the Wandering Remnant, passed on by Recon-In-Force, had not been taken seriously enough. And now an entire core system was gone, along with who know how many periphery and stray systems. And the beast was nowhere to be found, having cast itself back into the black void of space once... whatever objective it had was achieved. Consumption? To what end? How did it know when to stop? The outer reaches of Alshain were untouched, and by all reports still had exploitable resources. Perhaps it recognized it would spend more resources consuming those than it would gain? Impossible to know. And virtually impossible to guard against, save to the QCDs-

His door chimes. Turning from the window, he composes himself.

"Come."

"Admiral, sir." His aide, a young lieutenant, salutes. "You've just received another report on the Eater of Worlds - this time striking at Toliman."

Ballabh closes his eyes. "How many dead?"

"None sir, though the colonial administration is extremely irate."

"Excuse me?" Ballabh's eyes snap open. 

"The captain on station at Toliman II had spent time reading the Remnant/Recon documents and made the judgement call to use nukes. The Eater never broke atmosphere."

Ballabh blinks. He recalls that the Remnant had said that the Eater could be dealt with before entering a gravity well, but given the scale of its destruction, he assumed that it would take... well, a small fleet. "How many craft did this captain have?"

"One heavy cruiser. Many of the nukes were delivered by strike aerospace craft, apparently. Took less time than re-arming the missiles."

Ballabh nods. Good thinking on the part of that captain. "And the colonial administration is... irate?"

"Yessir. The EMP took out... well, most of the colony's infrastructure and so they've had a time getting it back up. Administration has arrested SSD staff sent down to help with the restoration-"

"They what?" asks Ballabh mildly. "No, don't answer that. I can see it. Strange sighting, followed immediately by nukes? I can see their concern. That being said... what has the captain on station's reaction been?"

"Repeated protests and escalation to command, sir."

"Well, escalation received. Get a relief force out there, with the new QCDs. Head it up under... that angry Carib general, you know the one, yes? Make sure he has the visuals from Alshain to make his points."

Ballabh returns to his desk with renewed vigour. The thing can be beaten. They have the means. Dangerous means, but means nonetheless. And the early warning system, though slow, is starting to go out. Now they just had to accelerate their deployment and prepare the galaxy for FTL communication. Easy, right?
=======
title = "Intermission - The Long One"
description = ""
weight = 24
+++

“Advance through cover, drones say the next two streets are clear but when the fuck did we decide to trust those things, eh?” Mitrios muttered over the comms, watching over the squad of SSD Marines under his eye here in the Rim.

A chorus of vaguely disciplined affirmatives reaches him as the survivors follow the plotted route, more than a little shell-shocked. SecCorp was supposed to be able to run rampant over the CDF, not hardened SSD “veterans.” As he and other operators worried, there was little difference between the two and so this “easy” assault on SecCorp conquests bordering Core space had gone to shit.  

“Major Mitrios, passive scans show what we’re identifying as *Fire Wasps* in the square beyond.”

He bites back a swear and moves up to the marine who made that call, letting his sensors range out. “Good call, marine, I concur. Also: fuck.”

Others, particularly the marines’ superiors, didn’t like the fact that he was so free with his opinions, but *fukkem* was his position on that. The soldiers liked the fact that he was upfront with them, down to his play-by-play editorials. In this situation, where getting the survivors out wholesale was a thing of doubt, that morale boost was invaluable. 

That many *Fire Wasps* was a problem, because they’d basically set themselves up to deny all points of egress here. He might be able to take two of them, but even with his advanced reflexes and technology, four to five of them were-

An entity resolves on the Neuralnet and Mitrios straightens. The eyes of the squad under his protection are suddenly on him in concern as he breaks into a sweat, eyes jittering across HUDs only he can see.

GREER: *Planetfall in 8, Mitri.*

MITRIOS: *Ah, shit.*

“HO-kay folks, we have Greer inbound, so shape up and prepare for the worst.”

“What’s a… Greer, sir? I’m not showing a unit in our briefings matching that name, but that fucking follows what this mission has been.”

“Greer? Greer is chaos.”

GREER: *Wow, rude.*

Kilometers in the sky, beyond his vision, a figure in freefall adjusts themselves. He gets his marine units in position, slowly, stealthily but with an urgency equal to the figure's terminal velocity. They see him look to the sky, so a few of them see the flash before the *BOOMs* of the anti-materiel rifle Greer carries reach them. 

Three shots is all it carries but three Fire Wasps crumple, shot through from a skyward source. Seconds later a no-longer terminal Greer slams into one that has started scanning the sky for them and it too dies. Distant screaming and a gout of fluid implies Greer has gotten through the soft rear armor, with what weapon god only knows. The fifth spins in place, prepared to hose down its ruined companions with liquid fire but Mitrios rises, aims and fires a precision burst that severs the right line. The *Fire Wasp* explodes into a gout of flame that spreads through the strongpoint the corprats set up for themselves. 

Not five seconds later a tall, lithe figure steps through that firestorm like it's nothing.

“Good to see you, Mitrios. Damn shame about this offensive, but maybe now we can make something of it.”

Mitrios relaxes, not out of any real comfort but as a reaction to being dropped into a situation he was more comfortable with. He didn’t think the mission was going to be be “preserve SSD lives” for much longer. Not with Greer on the table. 

“I don’t suppose you’re here to pull us out, then?”

Greer looks at the man quizzically. “I have two operators and a squad of SSD marines. Why the *hell* would I pull out now?”

As Greer turns towards the blasted colonial city, checking what few weapons they’d dropped with, Mitrios looks towards the heavens, towards whatever CDF or SSD ship dropped this piece of pandemonium into their midst. He opens his arms towards the sky as if to ask “what the fuck?”. But receiving no answer, Mitiros turns to the man who’d asked what a Greer was and twirls his wrist in a ta-da movement in their general direction. 

The direction of the greater SecCorp push to take this planet.

–

Doctor Mikoko Adam Kurzner shuffles his way through the tight halls of the *Kingfisher*, cognizant of the fact that he is venturing into the least safe space in the quadrant. Not an active war zone between CDF and SecCorp, but a bastion of the tightest kept secret in Human Sphere space.

Presently he finds himself in the hangar of the *Kingfisher*, and he wanders towards its furthest end, where three drop pods remain under the watchful eye of black-clad technicians. There’s no sign of their dark secret of course. Sometimes he needs to remind himself that its there, replaying footage he’d claimed from the *Kingfisher’s* drives. The techs regard him with no little suspicion and he draws up well short of them.

“Gentlemen! I was told I might find a Lieutenant Black here.”

Presently, a young black man makes his way from behind one of the drop pods towards him.

“I’m Black. What can I do for you, Doctor Kurzner?”

“Ah! So good to be recognized. I was hoping I might be able to talk to you in private? You see, Ms. Saelim said we might have things in common to talk about!”

Something like irritation flutters across Black’s face, but he signals his crew to continue as normal. “We’ve got a… not a private lounge, but it's an enclosed space where we shouldn’t be interrupted. That good enough for you?”

“Lieutenant Black, I defer to your requirements in this, freely.”

The young man leads them to a space, walled off from the rest of the hangar by personal lockers, storage crates and slabs of armor. Within, there’s a ramshackle table built from a solid piece of armor and some crates, with a bench on one side and individual crates for seating on the other. Black takes a seat on the bench and gestures at the crates for Kurzner. He slides onto one easily.

“So. Doctor Kurzner. I figured this day would come.”

“Mmm, indeed. Though maybe, through the wisdom of age I might be able to overcome your initial hesitancy.”

“I doubt that, but sure, hit me.” 

“Let’s not go into the identifiable details of your charge. Instead, let me say that I know there is a secondary fusion reactor present. That aligns with some research I’m engaged in at the moment, so I’m wondering if you’re… free to discuss some broader concepts surrounding it.”

Black crosses his arms and looks at the lab-coated man opposite him. “You realize I can’t share with you any specifications.”

Kurzner spreads his hands. “Of course! I merely want to… verify theses I’ve constructed for myself as regards dual-reactor systems.”

Nodding slowly, Black seems to relax a little. “If you only reference your own work, I guess I can comment on it in a limited fashion. Given that we both seem to be aligned with Saelim and Saetang.”

Kurzner’s eyes glitter. “*Exactly*, Lieutenant Black. Exactly.”

–

MITRIOS: *You are in an unusually good mood.*

GREER: *What do you mean?*

MITRIOS: *Well, normally you have much choicer things to say about the grunts.*

GREER: *I’ve learned they can be trained. How’re you finding yours?*

MITRIOS: *They’re not pets, Greer. Also, nice change of subject.*

GREER: *I don’t think they’re pets!*

MITRIOS: *Well that was more of a reaction than expected.*

GREER: *Shut up and help me kill this tank.*

MITRIOS: *This is what I’m talking about, you would never have let me get away with that before.*

Greer: *Okay, YOU kill the tank, I’m heading for the control tower.*

And with that Greer leaps halfway up the building, grabbing a windowsill and launching themselves the rest of the way up. 

“Alright marines, Greer wants us to kill that tank, so who wants to give me cover while I charge the stupid thing?”

The marines look uncertainly between themselves - after all, they’d not heard a word pass between the two operatives, feeding more into the myth of super-powered soldiers. But SSD marines, for all their lacks, are usually game for blowing something up, so they fit grenades to their rifles, unfold portable rocket launchers and power on a laser cannon HWAR. 

“That’s what I like about you guys, no shortage of stupid to follow me into stupid situations.”

–

Speaker Shulman closes the connection between bickering Prime Minister and Shadow Minister, unwinding what few tentacles he had lost control over that had become tensed up and turning back in a bobbing motion to Admirals Kehar and Bains. He gestures at them as if to say “See what I have to deal with” and Ballabh Kehar doesn’t envy him. Arguments between the opposition and official government was particularly bad this term, the conflict on the Rim feeding ideologies and graft on both sides.  

“Please tell me that there’s some good news coming out of this crisis.” The Sliri’s tank hums gently with his impulses as they’re translated into English. 

“Well,” Ballabh sighs, popping the top of his jacket open and reaching for a bottle of water from a side table. “We are drastically ahead of schedule on QCD development.”

“Because a ravenous planet-eating alien threatens our worlds.” The now-flat tone was a credit to the translator’s designers.

“Also we found out about a galaxy-spanning secret society,” Bains answers, pouring herself a scotch. The sudden quiet causes her to look and then nearly pitch the decanter across the room. “For *fuck’s sake* how am *I* the last person to find about the fucking Interest?”

“Oh you’re hardly the last Clarissa, it’s not like they’re public knowledge,” grins Ballabh. 

“I am literally going to smash your skull in if you continue to be this flippant about this *colossal* breach of opsec.”

“Speaking of, how’s Montague fairing?” Speaker Shulman asks. His tank hovers to a charging bay that replaces the Speaker of Parliament’s usual desk.

“*Annoyingly* well. Smarmy fuck.” Admiral Bain’s muttering lacks a certain venom, and its hard to not know why. Byron Montague was as charming as he was straight-edged. He was so damnably good at riding the fine line between coordinating between the Interest and SSDI and trying to fish secrets out from her that sometimes she found herself actually admiring the man. “He’s responsible for at least a five percent gain in efficiency in the investigation, focused primarily on SecCorp interrogations.”

“Are either of these two bits of information something I can feed to the parties to undo some of this catastrophizing?” Chairman Shulman asks, dragging them back on task, like a Speaker was supposed to.

“No.”
“No.”

“Wonderful. Then I’m afraid you probably won’t be seeing authorization to release any numbers of SSD forces to the Rim, Admiral.”

Ballabh Kehar stares at his bottle of water sourly. “Goddamn politics. The CDF is getting eaten alive out there. At some point SecCorp is going to produce something that can swat the *Agrotera* out of the sky and-”

“We know, Ballabh. But a Second Corporate War is… not in the cards as you humans say.”

“Funny how SecCorp doesn’t seem to think so.”

“SecCorp Rim, you mean. The investigation is still weeks away from being anything like complete but I’m ninety percent sure SecCorp Core legitimately had no idea about any of this.”

“And yet, we see more and more corporations voicing support for many of SecCorp Rim’s proposals.”

“Should just chuck their boards out of a window again,” mutters Bains, pushing her greying hair back.

“Or you could deliver that report and we might be able to free something up. In the meantime, tech transfers and resources are all the Colonial Bureau is going to get.”

–

“So, uh, sir, Greer’s your… superior?”

“Oh my god,” Mitrios rolls his eyes, “Please don’t let them hear that. No, we don’t really have a command structure. I follow Greer’s suggestions because they taught me and also-”

There is a low *boom* and the front face of the skyscraper before them crumbles, burying the two heavier *Lee-Grants* that have been blocking their advance to the launchpads.

“That. And also that.”

The marines stand dumbfounded as the unseen operative racks up another two vehicle kills.

“You kids done chatting about your *superiors* yet? Can we move on?”

Greer is crouched above them, casually scrolling through a tablet.

MITRIOS: *Oh my GOD Greer, I can SEE your biometrics, stop trying to look cool.*

GREER: *Ah, but you think I look cool!*

“So long as you don’t start blaring Toxic or some other shit music on our way to the launchpad.”

“Toxic? Like, the Britney original? That’s one of my… favorite…s…” the marine trails off as he realizes both operatives are looking at him, Greer with an absolute cheshire of a grin and Mitrios like he was going to kick his head clean off, which was something the operative could probably do.

Then Greer’s thumb stabs down at the tablet and the first bars of the pop classic starts blaring across the dome’s loudspeakers.

–

Deckard True stares out into the dark, at the forges crafting new Monitors. New ships that were rapidly being rendered obsolete. They knew the CDF had the technology to eat one alive, though SecCorp and its allied fleets were still cowed by the sheer weaponry on display when one dropped in. And of course they worked on colonials, but True hated that, considered it the price of doing business with vipers.  

He takes a sip of the rhyll - a callback, he’s told, to old space operas, while still functionally being rye. The Heraldry was proving moderately effective - less than its designers advertised, but still far from useless. But more importantly they had nanomachine foundries now. Programming the fucking things was still an ask, but there was real power there.

He hears a noise behind him and watches, not a little interested, as Concetta rouses herself from her gasping blackout. He pounds the remains of the rhyll, and saunters over.

“Jesus Deckard. I said I needed a load off, to be fucked into unconciousness.”

He tosses the glassware aside, letting it roll across the carpeted luxury of this converted Hauberi-Coronand vessel. Then he takes a run up and leaps into the bed of vipers that is Concetta Amalfi’s bed. Pinning her he croons,

“You sure about that? You really complaining about that or are you just mad that I haven’t provided a solution to your seedie problem?”

She looks up at him and licks her lips, “Little of column A, Trueblood, little of column B.”

“Well, how about I tell you allll about my plans for *our* seedie problem while inflicting a bunch of column A on your ass.”

“Not sure I like your tone, True-honey.”

“Turnabout’s fair play… didn’t you say that when you captured my ships those years ago?”

“Oooh, a callback. Okay stud, hit me with that column A and B.”

“*Agrotera*. Know what that means, in Greek?” he whispers into her ear, pinning her arms above her head like the prisoner he wishes he could treat her as.


–


It’s bloody work getting to the shuttle and towards the end it’s an almost never-ending stream of gunfire as Mitrios coordinates the marines’ fire, rotating soldiers through to fire and reload as they dart from cover to cover to clear the aerospace launchpad. Here the marines’ training finally shows through, smoothly grasping his purpose and instructions and following them to the letter. He could drop three times as many people with his DMR, but the marines functionally make up a third operator who never needed to reload.

So the night sky is basically an unending, cacophonous dawn as battle rifles endlessly tore through SecCorp soldiers. Greer is somewhere in the dark, the booming bark of their automatic sidearm sometimes echoing, dropping threats unseen. Where marine fire traces holes up from dead center, Greer’s fire just erases faces.

Then a *Fire Wasp* drops in behind them Mitrios stops-steps-moves, intercepting the arm actuator with the flamethrower and straining to hold it aloft. For a moment there’s the straining sound of metal as the Fire Wasp tries to straighten its actuator and hose them all down with liquid fire. Then the marines snap out of it and try to get around behind it.

The Fire Wasp lurches to the side trying to track them with machine guns, but Mitrios shifts his grip and locks down the ultralight mech, digging his boots in and remaining immobile. It opens fire with the flamer, gouting fire into the air and he can feel his arms beginning to sear. Then two things happen at once - a marine with a HWAR goes into a skidding slide past the *Fire Wasp*, coming up with the laser cannon pointed at its weak rear armor - and also a flash of movement from beside him as Greer drives kick right into the joint of the arm actuator. The marine fires, easily slicing through the armor and getting a perfunctory scream from the *Fire Wasp* pilot and Greer slams another kick into the actuator, snapping it. The colossal flamethrower gutters out and Mitrios tosses it to the side.

“Good work kiddos. Now, there are three capital ships up there… I’ll be taking suggestions on how we can down them one the way up.” 

–

The *Marlin’s* hangar bay is a small affair, barely able to fit the two Ashens and the infantry shuttle. It makes reloading the corvette a pain, particularly given its heavy torpedo payload. Lieutenant Commander Fenwick has asked various teams at Moonbase Alpha for a solution, but so far one hasn’t been forthcoming. This makes it especially difficult to see what Lt. Commander Jomura’s enormous shipment is all about. 

His infantry squad and various techs are clustered around long crates, clearly having come from Sol System Defense. Fenwick shoulders her way forward through the small crowd, coming to the fore. She could pick out the low, individual conversations with ease if she wanted to, but instead grabs snippets.

“-know what those are, those are Standarte crates-”

“-Okay, but why deliver directly to Lieutenant Commander Jomura, quartermasters usually-”

“-tags are from *Earth*, dude.”

“So is anyone going to open these or are we terrified that we’re going to all get blown up.” Crazy Jenny asks, shut eyes disturbing no one at this point

“I know Moonbase Alpha is new, but I’m fairly certain we’d have detected explosives,” comments Jomura. “Alright, pop the Standartes, since we’re pretty sure about those.”

Sure enough, the low green crates contain a set of Standarte semi-powered armor, more than enough to outfit Jomura’s squad. A grunt picks up a plain white sheaf of paper from within and looks up. “Fresh off the factory floor looks like.”

“Well, at least we’re getting *something*, if not the fleets. ‘Bout time the SSD sent us stuff,” someone comments

“It’s not from the SSD,” says Jomura, taking the sheaf of paper from the grunt. There’s something in his voice, thinks Fenwick, but he’s withdrawn most of the time, so she hasn’t been able to get a real read on him since he joined Second Recon.

“So?” She prompts, “Who are our benefactors?”

“Mm. How much do you know of Keiji’s family?”

“Not much, outside of you.”

“Mm. A conversation for later then.” Jomura reaches down and pops the latches on the case in front of him. Their snaps echo about and Jenny can immediately tell it’s thicker than the Standarte crates, probably. Someone else could tell her it was beige, if she cared. 

Instead she concerns herself with how the bay goes quiet as Jomura flips the lid over. The distant hum of the drives is the only thing that provides any noise and it's barely enough to know that whatever is in the crate is human shaped. 

Distantly, someone mutters, “Holy shit.”

She steps forward and raises her hand over the crate and snaps her fingers in the quiet of the bay. What comes back is clearly a suit of power armor, but slimmer, more human-sized. Lacking the bulk of even modern suits. Jomura reaches down and removes a piece of paper from it, and from the sound of it across his fingers, she knows it's not a cheap printout, that it’s proper stationery. 

He unfolds it and while he begins to read, Fenwick reaches down to touch it. The lines are strange, angled in some places and ribbed in others. There’s almost… patterning to the bare metal places that she can barely feel and the texture of the matte over parts sends a shiver down her spine. There’s no doubt whatever this is, it’s special. She hears Jomura fold the letter up and before straightening, her fingers glide over a shape - a single, raised chrysanthemum by the ankle. 

“Get these unloaded and moved into the armory. Lieutenant Commander Fenwick, perhaps we can speak in your staterooms.”

–

*Greetings, Renma-kun. Just a quick note to catch you up on things back here. Due to the political situation, you’re now estimated to be twenty-second in line. While that demotion probably does not concern you as it would many, please find the attached gift as a token of approval from the parts of the family that we know you care about.*

–

“Captain, we have a message in our queue.”

“Eh? From whom? From where?”

“No idea sir, it’s just… there.”

“Scan it for malware and then run it in a sandbox, will you?”

“Of course sir.”

Not a minute later, the captain of the CDF heavy cruiser *SSS-110* is leaning over his comm’s officer’s shoulder. The message plays and a young woman in combat gear regards the camera.

“Greetings, Captain. My name is Greer. By the time you get this I will be on board your ship with two operators and a full, angry squad of Sol System Defense Marines. You have until 1600 standard to sound the “Abandon Ship” alarms and eject yourselves or I will gut you, your crew and this ship in an orgy of violence you cannot imagine. Operator Greer, out.”

Frozen, the captain and communications officer look at the clock in his terminal. 

15:59

–

Greer puts one last bullet through the security drone protecting the bridge of the SSS *Destroyer-82*, in time to take in the glorious sight of one heavy cruiser ejecting its escape pods in something like a fireworks explosion.

GREER: *Called it.*

MITRIOS: *Didn’t doubt it for a second.*

GREER: *So what, your vocal protests at how stupid and self-aggrandizing that plan was was just a front?*

MITRIOS: *Just keeping the grunts' expectations down. We’re already demigods to them, we need them at 100%, not further in awe of us.*

GREER: *Get you a man who can do both.* 

Mitrios’ head snaps up and immediately Greer shuts their eyes in a gentle wince. 

“Alright grunts, look for the gunnery officer’s position and fast, we have exactly one shot at this. Literally,” they mutter, trying to get away from the conversation that is now going to play out in their heads.

MITRIOS: *YOU HAVE A SWEETHEART?!*

GREER: *There is absolutely no way of continuing this conversation without further incrim-*

MITRIOS: *OH MY GOD WHO IS IT?* Ooh, is it- wait. *THEY'RE A GRUNT?!*

GREER: *I don’t- he’s not-!*

“Uh. Major Greer? Think this is it.”

Vaulting over the consoles, Greer pulls up alongside the marine and takes over navigating the UI. “Yeah, that’s it. Awesome. Alright, these interfaces are pretty standard, don’t need to unlock anything because they were on combat alert and… aw. Aw, no. Fuck.”

“What is it?” Mitirios says, immediately abandoning their smacktalk.

“Thiiiis destroyer has nukes.”

The bridge is quiet for a moment, settling into the still sounds of a graveyard before a marine whispers, “Welp.”

“Are they-”

“They’re not attached to orbital bombardment missiles- they’re not attached to anything, but it's just a warhead swap.”

“The temptation will be There.”

“And this is a destroyer. Sure, missile-heavy load, but…”

The two operators and the marines look up to the two heavy cruisers still in the sky, one turning in space to come to the aid of the ejected crew. Depending on the grade of the warhead, three or four warheads could turn a garden world into a radioactive wasteland.  Even firing one in orbit in ship-to-ship battle was questionable. The fact that SecCorp provisioned this destroyer with that many nukes was… concerning. Remembering the mission, Greer keys in a firing solution and dumps all of the destroyer’s tubes into the turning heavy cruiser, blindsiding it and obliterating it. A perfunctory end, but suddenly it feels appropriate.

“Well. Mission Accomplished. Someone else want to write this report?”
>>>>>>> 18ddaaba9ba13e048e9cee73d355c0a4d7f7cd74
