+++
title = "Episode 26 Intro - You Know Its Name"
description = ""
weight = 26
+++

The SecCorp flotilla comes out of wormspace far from their target star, even further than normal safe ranges. It wouldn't do to accidentally stumble upon an unregistered mining operation or wildcat colony here, deeper into the Human Sphere. They are here to set up the first forward base for SecCorp advance out of the Corporate Rim, projected to happen 36 to 72 months from now. The system was chosen for a disparate scattering of resources that made it unattractive for industrial projects in the face of much more densely seeded systems. But they didn't need immediate profit, they needed a slow juggernaut that could eventually churn out fleets on the regular, supplied from all across the Rim. 

So while they are being cautious, they are not really expecting any sort of populace or infrastructure. Certainly not the very active and transmitting Sol System Defense shipyard that is very clearly in orbit around the star.

"Damn," mutters the captain. "Intelligence has no data on this place. If we're lucky, it's a secret base and we haven't given up the ghost of this advance."

"Um. Why would that be the lucky option, captain?" His XO is competent, but not particularly bright.

"Because my dear boy, SSD would never publicly admit to the existence of one of these bases and if we're lucky, it's so secret they can't admit it exists to the Admiralty or Parliament."

"That... sounds incredibly suspicious."

"Every organization in history that has ever had black sites operates like this, XO, it's practically common knowledge. Either way, kill engines, put us in a turn and prepare to cast wormholes, this mission is a wash."

"Wormhole signature captain! From... within a planet's gravity well!" 

The captain spins, turning on the sensor officer, incredulous and excited. *Maybe not so much of a wash.* "Confirm that and save the readings!"

"Yess-"

The officer doesn't have a chance to finish. There's a flash of white outside the viewscreen as a lightning fast, pearlescent ship briefly fills the cruiser's view. Briefly, before it and its fellows cut through the engineering fleet, leaving nothing but explosions in their wake.

--

"I have good news and I have bad news."




Mikoku Adam Kurzner is in a central lab of Dark Star Labs, slowly going over his teams’ data gathered on the particular nanomachine swarm called “Heraldry.” There was a lot of unique and creative engineering that went into them, but they were, as most nanoswarms were, very limited. Ultimately there wasn’t enough space to store complex instructions for nanoswarms reliably. Sure, you could effectively fit hundreds of megabytes of information across the entire swarm, but then you had to re-assemble it and there goes your entire processing stack.

They also can’t… effect much on a macro scale. Heraldry works because it does two things really well, and one thing as a side effect of its wireless capabilities. Honestly, whoever wrote that IFF hack was as brilliant an engineer as whoever designed the architecture of this swarm. But functionally, all Heraldry did was shift color. That was super basic, using very low-powered forces. 

He sat back in the tall stool he was stationed in and let himself spin aimlessly in his little corner. His staff knew better than to interrupt him when he got like this. This was Deep Think time, when he took all their distributed testing, research and evidence and pulled something insane out of his ass. The problem this time, was that he was running up against what he could actually do with this swarm. Oh, there were hundreds of applications, but they were commercial or corporate or creative, nothing militarily applicable. Plenty of biologically applicable things, but almost no one had those permits these days. Though maybe he could use the military to- *no, Adam, that’s a war crime.*

He’s progressed to the pen-clicking stage of his Think. At least this time he at least catches one of his labrats’ annoyed glances in his direction, so he ditches that habit, moving it to his labcoat pocket. He promptly fumbles that motion and the pen nearly tumbles to the floor, but the mild magnetic strip he’d put in the pocket for that very reas-

Magnets.

*Magnets.*

Slowly, so slowly, Mikoku Adam Kurzner closes his eyes as he feels the fugue come over him. The idea takes shape like a mirror shattering in reverse and halfway through the process he thinks, *Oh, I hate this one.* When it’s done, he hops off the stool with a delicate clack of his unshiny shoes.

“Okay, everyone out. I’m going to commit crimes against science and good taste now.”

They book it.

–

You’re brought into the lab. Lights flicker and the air is heavy with the smell of ozone. The whole place is in disarray, whole whiteboards given over to precise calculations that devolve into mad scribblings, terminals dragged into inconvenient places and tablets strewn everywhere. Welding equipment takes up an entire corner. But in the center, like the eye of a storm, stands Mikoku Adam Kurzner. He’s cleared a small area with a pedestal and a box on it.

“I want to be clear, here,” he begins, “that I take sole responsibility for this thing. My colleagues did much of the research and reverse engineering that made this possible, but to go from ‘we understand how this nanoswarm works’ to *this…* that is madness that I fully take responsibility for.

“You know mechs, they are horribly inefficient, yes? Aircraft are more versatile, tanks more hardy. But once we saw them in combat, we went *Yes, that. We want more of that.* Counter to all common sense, to military logic, we cleave to the appeal that these… big stompy giants engender. They are inspiring, lodged as they are in our minds from twentieth-century fiction.

“This, I fear, is another horrible inefficiency. But it bubbled up in my mind because like you, I am not immune to the appeal of… pop culture. Indeed, I am only glad that my parents passed before I designed my first mech because they would have been *verdammt* impossible to be around and those fangirls would have lost their literal shit over this. But enough of that. The madness called. I answered. The madness spoke and from its words, I crafted this.”

And with that, he lifts the box from the pedestal, revealing a single rod - no, a tube - resting on a matte pad. Expectantly he waits and when you don’t move, he gestures to it.

“Go on, pick it up. Mind the end.”

It is heavier than it looks. Plain, brushed steel makes up the majority of it, the welding competent but not pretty. It’s warm to the touch, implying an active power source of some kind in it. Rounded on one end, open on the other, with a single a button prominently placed where your thumb would go.

“I could give it a dozen more accurate names. Names that reflect the technology, the clever use of primal magnetic forces to contain the fourth state of matter, names that credit its creators… but no. We all know what it will be called.”

He’s right and you know it. So, holding the open end away from anyone, you hit the button and-

- there’s a sound like snap-hiss, followed by a thrum-

- the room is bathed in blue-green light -

- for the third time, Mikoku Adam Kurzner makes his mark on the galaxy.


– end, Episode 26 Intro: *Lightsaber*
