+++
title = "Episode 27 Intro - You Know Its Name"
description = ""
weight = 28
+++

The SecCorp flotilla comes out of wormspace far from their target star, even further than normal safe ranges. It wouldn't do to accidentally stumble upon an unregistered mining operation or wildcat colony here, deeper into the Human Sphere. They are here to set up the first forward base for a SecCorp advance out of the Corporate Rim, projected to happen thirty-six to seventy-two months from now. The system was chosen for a disparate scattering of resources that made it unattractive for industrial projects in the face of much more densely seeded systems. But they didn't need immediate profit, they needed a slow juggernaut that could eventually churn out fleets on the regular, supplied from all across the Rim. 

So while they are being cautious, they are not really expecting any sort of populace or infrastructure. Certainly not the very active and transmitting Sol System Defense shipyard that is very clearly in orbit around the star.

"Damn," mutters the captain. "Intelligence has no data on this place. If we're lucky, it's a secret base and we haven't given up the ghost of this advance."

"Um. Why would that be the lucky option, captain?" His XO is competent, but not particularly bright.

"Because my dear boy, SSD would never publicly admit to the existence of one of these bases and if we're lucky, it's so secret they can't admit it exists to the Admiralty or Parliament."

"That... sounds incredibly suspicious."

"Every organization in history that has ever had black sites operates like this, XO, it's practically common knowledge. Either way, kill engines, put us in a turn and prepare to cast wormholes, this mission is a wash."

"Wormhole signature captain! From... within a planet's gravity well!" 

The captain spins, turning on the sensor officer, incredulous and excited. *Maybe not so much of a wash.* "Confirm that and save the readings!"

"Yess-"

The officer doesn't have a chance to finish. There's a flash of white outside the viewscreen as a lightning fast, pearlescent ship briefly fills the cruiser's view. Briefly, before it and its fellows cut through the engineering fleet, leaving nothing but explosions in their wake.

--

"I have good news and I have bad news." Admiral Bains says as she enters the Speaker's office. Shulman's tank rotates slightly to give her his full regard. 

"You know, I love this human construction? Simultaneously setting expectations and letting the person opposite you choose their poison. With, as I've learned, ironic comedy in subverting expectations when delivering the 'good' and 'bad' news. Also, I choose bad."

"A SecCorp engineering fleet was intercepted well within the Core, presumably sent to set up a forward base."

Shulman is silent a moment, floating serenely in his tank, tendrils drifting aimlessly. "Well. That's a development and a half. I was afraid Ballabh's prediction about SecCorp escalating the situation would come true, but not... not on this scale. Well, what's the good news?"

Bains winces. "The Knife Ships work really well?"

Now Shulman's form spasms, propelling him to the top of his tank where his gelatinous form squooshes against it as his tendrils flail. In her brief tenure working with the Speaker, she's learned that this is his equivalent of banging his head off a desk.  

"And there's the subversion. Why are you telling me about Knife Ships fifteen years after the project was supposed to be *shut down*, Admiral Bains."

"Apparently some black site personnel didn't agree with that decision and kept up the production and testing of them in an out-of-the-way system. That the SecCorp fleet blundered into."

"Ancestors among us. Is someone being sent to deal with that?"

"Already on it, sir."

"Wonderful. Well, Admiral, I have good news and bad news for you."

"Oh, turnabout. I like that. Mmm, I'll go with good news."

"We won't be having a Second Corporate War yet."

"...how do you figure, sir?"

"We certainly aren't going to act on this information because that may expose the existence of the Knife Ships. And if we don't act-"

"SecCorp is already on their back foot because they've lost an entire fleet on their maiden push into Core space. They're going to think we have an intelligence advantage over them - a pretty damn impressive one."

"So we all pretend this is still a shoal scuffle and watch our dark spaces closer."

"...what's the bad news, sir?"

"The CDF isn't getting materiel after all. We-"

"Because we can't be seen to be the ones escalating the conflict. FUCK."

"Indeed, Clarissa. Fuck. Perhaps this can be used as a useful lesson for those... black site personnel."

--

It hits them like an ultralight, but even faster and with none of the drawbacks. A defensive cordon of SecCorp infantry unload everything they have into the sprinting form, but the bullets ricochet off ineffectually and the lasers *disperse* or similarly bounce away. They recognize it as power armor, but its nothing like they've ever seen before. Well... that's not true. Comics and sci-fi have had things like it for centuries, but here they face it in action. It fires a DMR from the hip while punching through a soldier's head and stomping on a grenade, slamming it into the asphalt, detonating it underfoot to no effect. Then the squad of semi-powered CDF troops hit the confused line and the SecCorp soldiers die in short order. In the chaos and gunfire, the suit's appearance looks subtly different. Before it was a matte thing, but now where bullets and lasers have hit it, that layer has flaked off, revealing a beautiful lacquer beneath, giving the whole thing a glimmering countenance, like some darkling diamond, buffed and polished in war.

The cordon across the fortification is spinning up its heavy weaponry and the CDF troops take cover. But not the power armor. It fires jump jets in its shoulders and thighs and rockets into the air, coming down on a heavy machinegun emplacement like a trebuchet-hurled rock. The gun crunches under its impact and as it rolls off into a crouch, taking precise shots with the DMR, micro-missiles fire from its knee, seeking out targets of opportunity. Again, the suit has turned the cordon into pure chaos that the CDF troopers - Second Recon - happily exploit. 

And when a *Fire Wasp* and a new *Steel Hornet* land between them and the power armor, it looks bad. The ultralights have deployed perfectly - the *Fire Wasp* targeting the troopers with its flamer and lighter weaponry and the *Steel Hornet* targeting the power armor with a laser cannon and lance. The *Fire Wasp* gouts flame and the troopers bail from the fortification, hurling themselves over the side, some with the presence of mind to hurl grenades at it. The power armor, meanwhile, fakes to the left, baiting out the laser cannon shot. It barely dodges in a spin back to the right as the massive weapon sears past, more of the matte outer layer evaporating under the close-passing beam. The *Hornet* has shifted slightly to make the shot and the power armor leans in the opposite direction, leveling a wrist and unleashing a precision laser right into the back of the *Fire Wasp*.

Here, on this day, Commander Renma Jomura relegates to history the concept of ultralight mechs. And he does it by drawing a wakizashi and charging the *Steel Hornet* as the *Fire Wasp* collapses behind it. 

His *Tetsu* power armor hurls him forwards at twenty kph and its systems warn him of the lance's strike, but its his own reflexes, his own training that lets him bring the wakizashi up, brace it back against his forearm and deflect the blow away from him. It screeches past him, howling like only metal on metal can. But the knife holds and the strength afforded him by the armor is more than enough to shove it out of the way and get right in the face of the *Steel Hornet*. For a moment it's a staring contest, a ridiculous standoff between a fifteen-ton vehicle and an armored man. Then Jomura reaches up, gets his other hand into the gap between armor plates and dumps his remaining laser charge straight into the internals of the mech, severing something and shutting it down.

As CDF troopers peek over the lip of the fortification, Jomura makes a call. "Second Recon to CDF Command - cordon secure, send in the evac transports. We're heading further in to clear more of the way."

"Domo arigato, O-Hanaya. Good hunting."

He scowls at the title, but can't deny the shiver that goes down his spine.

--

Mikoku Adam Kurzner is in a central lab of Dark Star Labs, slowly going over his teams’ data gathered on the particular nanomachine swarm called “Heraldry.” There was a lot of unique and creative engineering that went into them, but they were, as most nanoswarms were, very limited. Ultimately there wasn’t enough space to store complex instructions for nanoswarms reliably. Sure, you could effectively fit hundreds of megabytes of information across the entire swarm, but then you had to re-assemble it and there goes your entire processing stack.

They also can’t… effect much on a macro scale. Heraldry works because it does two things really well, and one thing as a side effect of its wireless capabilities. Honestly, whoever wrote that IFF hack was as brilliant an engineer as whoever designed the architecture of this swarm. But functionally, all Heraldry did was shift color. That was super basic, using very low-powered forces. 

He sat back in the tall stool he was stationed in and let himself spin aimlessly in his little corner. His staff knew better than to interrupt him when he got like this. This was Deep Think Time, when he took all their distributed testing, research and evidence and pulled something insane out of his ass. The problem this time, was that he was running up against what he could actually do with this swarm. Oh, there were hundreds of applications, but they were commercial or corporate or creative, nothing militarily applicable. Plenty of biologically applicable things, but almost no one had those permits these days. Though maybe he could use the military to- *no, Adam, that’s a war crime.*

He’s progressed to the pen-clicking stage of his Think. At least this time he catches one of his labrats’ - *I mean assistants, IMEAN colleagues* - annoyed glances in his direction, so he ditches that habit, moving it to his labcoat pocket. He promptly fumbles that motion and the pen nearly tumbles to the floor, but the mild magnetic strip he’d put in the pocket for that very reas-

Magnets.

*Magnets.*

He calls up the schematics for the bottle-poppers, the *church keys*. Things that de-stabilized magnetic bottles. They effected a magnetic- *yes, okay, that works. At that scale, I could- why, at that point why even have a bottle? You could weaponize the-*

He blinks. *At that scale? Yes, it works, but what does scale have to do with- oh no.*

Slowly, so slowly, Mikoku Adam Kurzner straightens and closes his eyes as he feels the fugue come over him. The idea takes shape like a mirror shattering in reverse and halfway through the process he thinks, *Oh, I hate this one.* When it’s done, he hops off the stool with a delicate clack of his unshiny shoes.

“Okay, everyone out. I’m going to commit crimes against science and good taste now.”

They book it.

–

You’re brought into the lab. Lights flicker and the air is heavy with the smell of ozone. The whole place is in disarray, whole whiteboards given over to precise calculations that devolve into mad scribblings, terminals dragged into inconvenient places and tablets strewn everywhere. Welding equipment takes up an entire corner. But in the center, like the eye of a storm, stands Mikoku Adam Kurzner. He’s cleared a small area with a pedestal and a box on it.

“I want to be clear, here,” he begins, “that I take sole responsibility for this thing. My colleagues did much of the research and reverse engineering that made this possible, but to go from ‘we understand how this nanoswarm works’ to *this…* that is madness that I fully take responsibility for.

“You know mechs, they are horribly inefficient, yes? Aircraft are more versatile, tanks more hardy. But once we saw them in combat, we went *Yes, that. We want more of that.* Counter to all common sense, to military logic, we cleave to the appeal that these… big stompy giants engender. They are inspiring, lodged as they are in our minds from twentieth-century fiction.

“This before you, I fear, is another horrible inefficiency. But it bubbled up in my mind because like you, I am not immune to the appeal of… pop culture. Indeed, I am only glad that my parents passed before I designed my first mech because they would have been *verdammt* impossible to be around and those fangirls would have lost their literal shit over this. But enough of that. The madness called. I answered. The madness spoke and from its words, I crafted this.”

And with that, he lifts the box from the pedestal, revealing a single rod - no, a tube - resting on a soft plastic pad. Expectantly he waits and when you don’t move, he gestures to it.

“Go on, pick it up. Mind the end.”

It is heavier than it looks. Plain, brushed steel makes up the majority of it, the welding competent but not pretty. It’s warm to the touch, implying an active power source of some kind in it. Rounded on one end, open on the other, with a single a button prominently placed where your thumb would go.

“I could give it a dozen more accurate names. Names that reflect the technology, the clever use of primal magnetic forces to contain the fourth state of matter, names that credit its creators… but no. We all know what it will be called.”

He’s right and you know it. So, holding the open end away from anyone, you hit the button and-

- there’s a sound like snap-hiss, followed by a thrum-

         - the room is bathed in blue-green light -

                - for the third time, Mikoku Adam Kurzner makes his mark on the galaxy.


– end, Episode 26 Intro: *Lightsaber*
