+++
title = "Episode 28 Intro - Ignition"
description = ""
weight = 29
+++

A hand used to war reaches out and touches plate made to endure it. 

Greer runs their hand across the patterning of the Tetsu, appreciating the fine detail and also how it glimmers subtly where the coating has been blown off. There’s beauty in craft and also in endurance and *goddamn* did the foundry that made this knock it out of the park. They’re aware how their lingering touch looks, but don't really care. Even as they feel the *Tetsu*’s owner enter the armoury.

“I’m surprised it’s not more… vibrant.”

“Yoshiwara-couture may be ascendant back home, but… well. I think those that commissioned this suit for me understood my sensibilities.”

Greer looks at him, sidelong. 

“Hmm. Commissioned?”

“Yes?”

“Are you-”

“Ah. This is where you tell me that this isn’t a one-off. That this is some kind of prototype or that I got the first off the line.”

Greer’s heart does a thing where they can’t tell if it swells or collapses. “Well… yes. That, functionally, is *Tetsu–0*, the iconic version, before they start rolling them off the production line.”

Renma nods. “Everything the model could be, before budget cuts, before needing to be integrated into Sol System Defense’s logistics.”

“Yeah. Something chosen, shaped, and placed in another’s-”

“Enough.” It comes so suddenly, so forcefully, Greer is taken aback. But it's not unexpected. He’s always been… humble about his position, distant though it may be. They shut up, and don’t mention anything about any sort of Kiku-no-Hanaya. Instead they back away from the power armour, taking up a position beside Renma Jomura. 

“I… I’ll admit to hoping something like this would happen.”

He gives them a long side-eye. “That we’d be fighting a holding action against pirates to claim proof of SecCorp le-”

Greer smacks him, hard, in the shoulder, enough to send him halfway across the room. They wince, thinking they’ve overdone it, but he’s laughing as he half-staggers back to them. “I’m sorry. Continue, please.”

The operator is quiet for several moments, stretching into minutes, wrestling with *feelings* and *intent*. It’s irritating. Irritating and enlivening. The *Tetsu* looks down on them, and finally they turn and look down at Renma. Somehow he doesn’t seem as short as he used to.

“Since you turned around to fight an overwhelming force on Perimeter Station, somehow full of belief that you’d do some good… Since you blew through a ceiling to one-vee-one an ultralight…” They stop, take a hitching breath. “Since you introduced me to Jennifer Fenwick, I’ve been hoping for a chance for you to show me if you can keep up with me. Show us how capable you can be.”

They can feel his eyes slip off them as he looks at the power armour. Then he steps up to it, bringing a cloth-covered length up. Greer’s surprised that they didn’t notice it before, but perhaps the drab cloth was chosen for a reason. Renma uncovers the blade and like the armour, it gleams in the dark. Greer’s eyes flit up to the wakizashi already sheathed at the side of the tetsu - this blade’s smaller sibling. 

“It seems silly. What good is a katana in the hands of a suit that can fire lasers from its wrists and negate recoil? I only kept the wakizashi because that’s actually useful in a brawl.”

He holsters the *tsuba*-less katana alongside the wakizashi and now the *Tetsu* looks… more complete. That foundry knew exactly what they were doing. 

“But I’m beginning to understand. It’s not about effectiveness. It’s not about being *capable*. I mean, *look* at it. As silly as it sounds, it’s about making a statement.”  

“And what statement are you making, Renma Jomura?”

“Me? I have no idea. But walking into this fight, wearing this suit, wielding those swords, I know the statement I’m delivering.”  

The pair of them stare up at the thing on its mount and Greer can feel the oppressive weight of the Takamikura behind it.

“As for how capable I am, why not attach to my squad for this battle and find out, Major Greer?”

“Damn, you don’t fuck around when it comes to proposals, do you?”

He shoves them out of the way playfully as he turns to leave the armoury, a faint blush on his face. Then his tablet pings and when he checks it he frowns. Greer already knows what it is, having constructed and sent it not three seconds ago. 

“It’s a communication module. Install it into your comms and the suit. We’ll be able to talk securely while in range of one another.”

Curious, Renma installs it to his comms and as soon as its reached his earpiece, Greer links and says,

“Welcome to Wetware, Commander Jomura.”

Renma watches their lips not move, hears their voice in his ear and his eyes go wide.

–

Concetta Amalfi watches her second in command/sometime lover leave with his hastily put together attack force. He knew it was a trap and was responding in the appropriate way - overwhelming force. Well, no, the appropriate way would be to ignore the baiting and carry on with his little crusade safely… all the while helping her stock her coffers. But their agreement revolved around letting him run his arm of the Banners how he wanted. 

Deckard True was an asset to them. Besides being a properly inspiring firebrand, he was a reasonably effective pilot and a good combat leader - when he wasn’t losing his shit. It was easy to see how his brief dalliance with the Interest went sour. Firebrands were good for the street, not the round table.

She closes up her robe and returns to the terminal she’d hastily turned off when Deckard had burst in here. She’d been sloppy - the door should have been locked but he was livid enough that he hadn’t noticed anything. Of course being in that state made it very easy to manipulate him and once she’d had her way with him, she sent him off on his little crusade with her “blessing”.

Now she turns the recording back on, taking in the snivelling little SecCorp weasel trying to project power in front of a bigass mech. Through a recording. Unbelievable. It wasn’t her fault they expected a *pirate queen* to stick to the terms of their agreement. Anyways, both parties had got what they wanted initially and *they* were the ones to pick a fight with the whole Human Sphere. She just wanted enough resources to terraform a little planet of her own and live in opulence for the rest of her life on. 

At this rate, that would be before this dumbass finishes his rant. But she’ll finish watching the whole damn thing in case she can suss out anything she could send to her spies for more juicy details. Hell, maybe the CDF would pay for details on some very shiny new mech she can see back there in the background.

*Dumbass.*

– 

They go through his squad of SSD marines like a tablesaw through meat. Slightly smaller than him, blindingly fast, armed with vicious blades, these were definitely genetically modified individuals. They come for Mitiros, expecting another easy kill but he surprises them, matching their speed, blowing one’s leg off and catching the other’s wrist and hurling them behind him, where he heard something move.  

Mitrios barely looks at the legged one, double tapping him through the head as he spins in place, watching more of the modded people emerge from the shadows. At five in total he had his work cut out for him.

“An operator…” one of them says, voice clearly disused to speech. “Always wanted to see how we stacked up.”

“Aren’t we just like them though?”

“Nah, we’re *better.*”

Mitrios relaxes. “You’re not operators, but you could be, if you wanted. Most of us are exactly like you, ex-slaves who just want to get back at the monsters who made us.”

A brief moment of silence and then laughter from the group. “We’re not slaves, we’re assassins. Made and train-”

“Breeding people for a purpose makes of them slaves.” It’s a short statement, but he can see it rock a few of them. “The only restitution is granting them the freedom to choose and since your masters won’t I- *we* put it to you: You can walk away from this, do what you want - just stop following their orders.”  

More quiet and the assassins look between themselves. “And if we *want* to murder you and your friends?”

Mitrios shrugs. “Then there will be a lot more corpses on the ground.”

“Yeah right. There’s five of us and one of you. You can’t be so confident.”

“Like I said, you’re not operators. I am.”

The one with a disused voice snarls, “What’s the fucking difference then?”

“Guns, mostly.” There’s a sudden *doonk* sound as a marine fires his underslung grenade launcher at the group. They’re fast, but the marine knew what he was doing and the grenade airbursts in the middle of their scattering group. Even as shrapnel tears through his armour, Mitrios snaps up his rifle and starts drilling shots through heads as the bodies stagger and fall.

A quick check of the corpses, then he rushes to the marine. His armour is leaking coagulant and sealant across the vicious cut through his gut, doing its best to save him. Mitrios grabs an injector from his first aid kit and jabs the man full of stimulants and more coagulant. 

“Helluva shot, marine.” 

“Th-thanks. Gl-gl-glad I g-guessed th-the range r-right.”

“So am I.” 

A few others give low moans and Mitirios sets about trying to save who he can, calling in extract and mission failure. Then he checks his mags, gathers up some grenades and gets to work defending the extract zone. Besides getting the marines back, he also needs to bring back an assassin corpse for proof. Whether or not they knew it, SecCorp had basically just signed their death warrants.

–

It’s been a relatively quiet High Admiralty meeting, with now-routine discussion of logistics and getting the Colonial Defense Forces out in the Rim the resources they need to put down SecCorp Rim’s insurrection. Not fight the Second Corporate War. There is definitely no Second Corporate War happening.  

Ballabh could laugh, were it not for the tedium. He watches Bains, wonders how she can stay so engaged in what is easily the worst part of the job. *I guess you need a different outlook in Intelligence.* He very much wants to turn back to the massive, arcing glass windows and watch Earth and its crystalline webbing slowly turn behind them.

The tedium is interrupted with a knock on the doors to the chamber and the appearance of an old, towering woman ducking through the doors. Conversation ceases as the operators’ representative to the Admiralty makes a rare appearance, clad in her customary blank black formal uniform.

“Major Diana.” Ballabh breaks the silence as Diana removes her hat. “What brings you to us today.”

“I’ve received word from Switchboard.” Her voice is harsh, worn and direct. “Evidence has been uncovered of mass genetic breeding programs by SecCorp and potentially other corporations in the Periphery. We’re mobilizing.”

A few swears roll through, some Admirals leaning back in their chairs. One manages to speak up, “Sol System Defense can’t mobilize without the authorization of Parliament and-”

Her face flickers in annoyance and Diana interrupts him, “Respectfully, the terms of our treaty doesn’t bind us to Parliament’s decisions. We are allies, not subordinates. We’re extending this notice as a courtesy, as is customary.”

Ballabh’s lips draw into a thin line. That was as blunt as he’s ever heard it put, or read for that matter. 

The other admiral tries again, “The ramifications of starting another Corporate War-”

“The war has already started.” The annoyance on Diana’s face has turned to outright contempt. “Parliament’s delusion and your inaction won’t change that. We’re mobilizing. Join or don’t, it doesn’t matter to us.”

As she’s about to turn to leave, Ballabh speaks.

“How bad is it, Diana?”

She stops, looks over at him. “That light carrier group that was lost, the Thirteenth? They died to a single carrier. Operator Mitrios found a planet producing ‘Assassin’ geneforms. These aren’t the moves of a group looking for ‘independence.’ They’re coming for the Core.”

Bains gets up and makes for the door herself. “Get me the intel, Major Diana, I’ll see about making an argument Parliament might swallow.”

She looks down at the shorter woman and nods decisively. “Aye, ma’am.”

They leave.

Ballabh turns to look at Earth.

*Be careful what you want to laugh at, old man.*
