+++
title = "Episode 28 Intermission - Protagonist"
description = ""
weight = 30
+++

Petajoules of energy flash above Lieutenant Commander Latfi as she nudges her Screamwing into an attack run against one of the the colossal Monitors the pirates have deployed against Lotholo. The speed at which she's travelling turns even the vastness of space into something intimate, personal. As the vast, grey-white bulk of the Monitor rises up to occlude her view, she begins arming very precisely chosen weapons.

"CDF and Operator intelligence says SecCorp are sporting nuclear warheads. And we know they leaked tech to the pirates-"

"We're not using nukes," Latfi had cut the Second Recon officer off. "One - we don't have time to fabrikate foolproof detonation/dearmament systems. Two - a solid eighty percent of the effect you all... that *we* have on these Periphery colonies is that we *are* the clear moral choice."

The officer was clearly unhappy with her ruling, probably for a multitude of reasons. Her SecCorp background, her blueblood genetics, her ad-hoc insertion into Second's command structure... But Crazy Jenny ran a tight crew, and if they didn't respect Latfi, they respected her. So when Latfi ordered MOABs, they looked to Lieutenant Commander Fenwick and when she nodded, they set to work fabrikating them. 

At least her squad had learned to follow her. Only three Ashen IVs, but they could still carry enough munitions to hurt a monitor. All of them, including her, were limited to a single MOAB though. And Ashens could only be considered fighters once their payloads were depleted. So Aryana Latfi strapped a Mother Of All Bombs to her Screamwing, opened up its engines and made the most enticing target possible for the Monitor's crews. With a commander like that, was it any wonder the Second Recon pilots followed her?

--

"D, get out of there. You've inflicted more than enough casualties."

Daud watches Armand de D. casually check his combat display and give a curt nod offscreen before the Frenchman turns to face him. "You and I have very different definitions of 'enough,' mon ami."

"Twelve gunboats, two corvettes and a frigate is 'enough' for a ship as old as the *Lalonde*."

"Mmm, yes, but I have access to information you do not, my dear Commodore."

"Don't call me that. What are you talking about, Armand?"

"Our maneuvering thrusters are shot. We could not manage a graceful disengagement if we tried." Daud watches the enormous engines of the ancient *Lalonde* brighten and something like dread overtakes him. 

"D-"

"Quiet, Daud. This is good. This is how we should go out. We bought this ship wholesale from SSD eighteen years ago, you know? The crew and I. We fought the good fight, defending the Sphere from her enemies as we could. Picked up a few foreigners along the way, but we kept everyone who liked us and who we liked."

"D, just post up and wait for reinforcements. Don't die usel-"

"Pardonnez-MOI?! Those who would prefer to abandon ship already have. Do not insult us who remain with terms like 'useless,' mon ami. The French die like no others - gloriously and at great cost."

The Lalonde's engines brighten to the point that Captain Roam can no longer look at them, and the huge bulk of the heavy cruiser surges forwards. Its reactor is in overcycle and its huge modernized laser batteries spit out death to match. Slowly, but faster and faster, the *Lalonde* strikes into the heart of the pirate formation.

Thirteen gunboats. Fourteen. A corvette is crushed against the prow of the surging *Lalonde*. Its batteries focus down another frigate, slicing the sub-capitol ship to pieces with its coherent wrath. What pitiful thrusters remain align the *Lalonde* with its target, even as it effects a trail of glimmering explosions.

"Tell my parents... tell them that they will find my behaviour commensurate with the best traditions of our family."

"D! Don't do this!"

But Armand de D. is already saluting, already dragging his eyes from comms to combat display and giving new orders.

Sixteen gunboats. Five corvettes, six. The massive batteries of the *Lalonde* stop focusing on small fry and converge on the hull of the Monitor she's aimed at.

--

"Go, out, go!" yells Greer as their dropship freewheels through the sky, hammered by pirate anti-air. Jomura's squad fling themselves out the back of the drop ship, at least two enterprising souls going *straight through* a hole blasted by ballistic shells. As they turn to yell at Renma, they find him striding towards a hole in the floor of the dropship, the *Tetsu* enveloping him properly. He gives them a bare glance and a nod before hopping down through it. 

For a moment, a blessed, life-clarifying moment Greer stands in a crashing vehicle and reflects on how they've come to be the last one off this doomed vehicle, its passengers having bailed in increasingly insane ways. And then, just as the ship crashes into one of the high crescent walls of Fakeout Bay, Greer leaps through a hole in the fuselage, skips off a wing and *slams* into a tree, arms and legs nearly dislocating as they continue along like a cartoon character.

They hit the ground and roll, coming up dazed, but coherent enough to see the mountain start to fall upon them, all the survivors of that crash. Limbs work their way back into place as they being to sprint faster than any human body could manage, making for a glimmering black form just standing up.

--

The bogey slams clean through one of their ECM sites and Ram Saetang is already leaving the bridge. He doesn't need to see anything beyond the fact that it weighs seventy-five tons and survived a five hundred meter drop with no problems. Every nerve in his body is firing, commanding him into the theatre of war and for once, he's not inclined to countermand them.

"Lieutenant Black, prepare a drop-"

"Already on it, sir. We've cleared the deck, the pod is open and ready to receive you."

"Well done, Black. Was this you, or the mech?"

"We cleared the deck, once it became clear that the Blackmech thou-*knew* it was going into battle again."

"Mrn."

Ram Saetang doesn't say anything more as he strips out of his officer's uniform and into the pilot suit of a Walker-In-Steel.

--

The heat in the cockpit is incredible. She's never taken it to this level before, though she understood what Yang could do. With the armor blown free, the conducive elements of the thermal myomers could sear ever brighter, turn the *Ember Celica*'s contact points even more lethal. Trisha Oum can feel the wet ground beneath the *Yang Xiao Long* steaming and hardening into rock, even as she sweats her life and energy away to pummel the enemies of her family into ruin. Her mech once gleamed golden - now it glows red. The bright red of wrath and passion, not the dull and dark of the pirates. Not the colour of the *Melior* that strides out from the smoke before her.

*This is insane*, a part of her thinks as she fires her thrusters, taking her airborne. Her mech weighs *maybe* thirty tons and here she is, flinging it at a seventy-five ton monstrosity. But even from here, she can see the flared nozzles of its jump jets, see how it mimicks her mother's work. Rage then boils up and her mind is filled with but one thing.  Midair she flips over to drive her ludicrous momentum down into the black and red mech. And for a moment, the rage isn't the only thing in her mind. Something like a friend forgotten, like the memory of a story fills her and her form changes. Where a second befor the axe kick looked like something a kid having played Street Fighter would do, now a Huntress out of storybooks drops thirty tons of wrath onto a specific part of the *Melior*.

As she descends, Trisha swears she hears, *We got this, kid.* 

--

Lieutenant Commander Latfi doesn't flinch as a laser blast sears the colours of her Screamwing well into the carbon range. Instead she taps a panel that begins the arming procedure of the MOAB, even as minute twiches of her wrist guide the aerospace fighter through the trenches of this massive spacecraft. Arming numbers tick down, even as her speed numbers ticket up. She doesn't bother to hide her signature, letting the flaring signatures of the Screamwing dominate pirate sensors.

Even as the slower, more ponderous Ashen IVs waaay behind her pick up speed. 

The worst part of space operations as an aerospace fighter was your inability to properly fight in a truly three-dimensional space as your thrust was either wholly or mostly limited in one direction. The best part of space operations as an aerospace fighter was the sheer fucking linear speed you could build up.

So when a Screamwing delivers a MOAB into the heart of a Monitor, there's scant little that can affect its course fired from a craft already travelling many times the speed of sound. When three Ashen IVs drop three more seconds later, that's a death sentence for that Monitor as the Mother of All Explosions consumes it from within.

--

The final flight of the *Lalonde* is simple, direct and effective. As fanciful as their language and customs are, the tactical principles of the French have ever been pragmatic and direct - focus the maximum amount of firepower into the enemy's most effacious area in as short a time as possible, at whatever the cost.

Twenty two gunboats, six corvettes, three frigates and a destroyer die to the guns of the *Lalonde* before it drives its immense bulk into the second Monitor above Lotholo.

And across the system, across the most open broadband possible, its crew howls,

"Liberté, Egalité, Fraternité - Vive la Sphère!"

--

The ruin of the "landing zone" is incredible. Where before the plan was to get the drop on descending pirate forces and ruin the efficacy of their landing zones, now CDF and pirate forces are trapped beneath a colossal avalanche of the island's crescent mountainside. A lone figure struggles across the ruins of the landscape, making for a weak signal. Greer can barely see through the walls and waves of dust causes by the crushing collapse of the mountainside, but they have other senses to rely on.

*Alive?*

*Uh, yes?*

*Good. 3x ultralights doing recon, need to maximize positioning advantage.*

*Where- where's my squad, where are y-*

Renma Jomura's questions evaporate as Greer's Wetware sensors interface with the *Tetsu*'s more mundane ones. Some of his squad live, trapped under tons of rock, but its him and Greer against all comers at this rate. His thoughts and doubts bleed into the Wetware and Greer can *feel* them, untrained as they are. Nothing like their fellow Operators. But Renma's a quick study, senses their ever-shifting focus and takes in the data. And he makes his choice.

*Dig me out.*

*You can't win.*

*I can't. WE can.*

The pulse of information through Wetware is incredible and nearly drives Greer to their feet. Bios of everyone in Renma's squad, what little he knew of the the dropship pilots, Crazy Jenny's responsibilities in orbit... Greer has always been used to being the lynchpin of an operation, being the sole piece responsible for its success. Now they see how Renma works, not just a cog in a wheel but at the same time very much that cog and also a thing that directs them. They start to make more connections, but mechs in the ruins of the mountain beginning to stand. So they do the only thing they can do and rush to his side, grabbing at the enormous slab of slate-like rock that buries him.  

They shift and orient themselves, getting their engineered body into the right position. For a brief moment, as they get their legs under the slab and *raise* it with what trembling, artificial might they can manage, they think, *Isn't this backwards? Shouldn't HE be lifting this off ME? Ehn, I'm a lousy fucking damsel anyways.* And then they can feel the heavy tread of ultralights behind them, feel the overpowering weight of vehicular tons march in their direction to finish this small, defiant pocket of CDF resistance. And then, as they lift that slab of rock, a figure *fires* out, ion-jet propelled, arm around their waist, carrying them free of that corner they were forced into. And doubt disappears. 

Combat armor and operator hit the cluster of infantry and ultralights and it's an unholy massacre. The *Tetsu* would likely be bad enough, but then introducing an Operator into the mix? With a *lightsaber*?

By the time the dust clears, only two figures remain - a statuesque, dual-wielding combat armour and a lithe human, lit by flickering blue and green.

--

An enormous mechanical hand reaches up and *catches* the kick from the *Yang Xiao Long*. Cruel metallics shears snap out from the *Melior*'s armor out to sever the leg and-

--

Horrific anti-air firepower shreds the drop-pod carrying Danny safely into the atmosphere. Halfway through burn-in, its protective coating blows away and he's left to plummet a hundred kilometers to Earth. His eyes come up, eyeing his trajectory and he has to fight the dragon to not crash into-

--

Every part of Armand de D's body hurts. But it hurts, which means he's still alive. Which makes very little sense. Groggily he looks up, trying to make sense of the world. Then the screens swim into focus and he realizes the *Lalonde* is driven right-

--

From the dropship steps an enormous mech, a huge, plodding thing to make the *Shin-Ryuken*, *Melior*, and even the *Antagonist* seem small. Greer and Jomura exchange glances as the ground shakes and bolt for the dropship, intent on causing as much damage as possible-

--

“Hard pressed on my right. My center is yielding. Impossible to maneuver. Situation excellent. I am attacking.”

- General Ferdinand Foch, 1914.
