+++
title = "Episode 28 Intermission Redux - Drop Time"
description = ""
weight = 31
+++

Mitsui thrusters at full burn, arms turned into extra thrust, the *Yang Xiao Long* screams into the air after the *Melior*. The sheer speed that they’re travelling at bleeds the heat from the Ember Celica, but Trisha Oum barely cares anymore. She needs just one, single thruster from this thing to prove SecCorp’s treachery. And she’ll have it, one way or another.

The moment she hits the range limit on the Celica’s cannons she opens fire, aiming to try and carve a leg off. But the *Melior* is too quick and snaps to the left, using far more jump jets than Mitsui had ever planned to mount on a mech. *He has to be modified - no one could take those g-forces.*

The *Melior* comes in for a pass, but the Celica is already back in thruster mode and Yang dodges of its way, a rolling midair dodge that gives them clearance to dump two more shots into the *Melior*’s back.

Something explodes above them and Trisha is perfectly willing to ignore it, but an errant pass of the Yang Xiao Long’s sensors sweeps over the wreckage and what comes back-

-where before there was something… familiar, a nascent formation of if not thought then *feedback*, there is…

Cold.

*Yang Xiao Long*, young and freshly made as it is, knows what is falling. 

The cold of it is enough to freeze them, enough for the *Melior* to grab them and *spike* them at the ground.

–

In the distance the slow, inevitable plod of the Corpse gets ever closer to this complex. The shaking of the ground under its tread is briefly offset by the impact of the Ironsides Mk III that falls before him. Its pilot was skilled, and its armament was concerning, but it made up the majority of the CDF’s armor on the ground now. Even without an arm, Deckard True is confident in the Red Banners’ ability to erase this pathetic conference from the face of Lotholo, hopefully permanently etching into the Spheroid oppressor memories that the Banners could not be stopped. 

And then his sensors pick up another signature, a half second before *another* impact shakes the ground. A wreck, falling from low atmosphere likely. Unfortunate placement, or perhaps the CDF tried to kill him with its fall. Irrelevant either way. He moves to wipe the lithe, reactorless mech and-

Behind him, something moves in an enormous cloud of dust, even as his IFF goes *insane*. Alphanumerics shift and roll as they try to identify the thing. And then, as a single red sensor beam slices through the dust like some ancient scimitar, the characters resolve.

*BLK-0000.*

From the cloud of dirt and concrete, two misshapen arms rise up and a figure staggers forth. And the red hot blood in Deckard True’s veins runs cold.

–

The side hatch of the dropship opens and the pilot is tossed out. It’s not far to the ground, less than two stories, but Greer hucked him out head first. In the distance, the Corpse trudges its way at the complex, enormous plasma casters blasting, missiles firing free. And above them, Second Recon’s gunships and corvettes take a heavy toll on pirate fighters and drop ships, but even as they watch, one’s engines go up in flames and it veers off from the battle. 

Greer and Renma look at each other. 

“Big scary mech or big scary aerial furball?”

“Can you *fly* this thing?”

“Not *well*, but sure.”

“...perhaps we should take our chances with the earth-shaking, zombie-faced mechanical man.”

“C’mon, haven’t you ever wanted to hit an airplane with a sword?”

Renma stares at Greer incredulously. “No. Until you just said those words, I hadn’t ever even considered the possibility. I have however always wanted to David versus Goliath a heavy.”

“Ha! Before getting that suit? You’re crazy.” Greer slides into the pilot’s seat and starts making preparations for take-off.

“Before meeting you, I was a perfectly normal young Japanese man. You make me crazy.”

Greer starts flipping switches faster and pointedly not looking at him. Their response is cut off by a small explosion of dust as something hits ground inside the complex. 

“What was that?”

“Dunno, orbital debris?” Greer’s eyes and irises stretch wide as they focus their lenses onto the distant target. Its difficult maintaining the muscles in that configuration without a targeting stream to hook into but they can hold it long enough to see the red sensor beam, to watch the arms come up.

They straight-arm themselves back in the chair in shock, blinking away the image and the tears.

“Holy shit.”

“What? What is it, Greer?”

“We’re, uh. We can probably go hit planes with our swords now.”

“May I bother you to stop being cryptic and-”

Through the WetWare Greer uploads their impressions of the dark form leaving the cloud of dust.  

“...I’d heard that it- that the Commodore piloted it. I just thought… you know, barroom talk. Tall tales.”

“Yeah. Something else to see it though.”

“Yeah.”

“So…” Greer says as the engines begin to whine. “Planes?”
