+++
title = "Episode 29 - Recuperation"
description = ""
weight = 32
+++

Ram "Danny" Saetang puts down the report from Dr. du Maurier, relieved that Sascha has regained conciousness. Reactor kills were always messy thing and the man took a beating on ejection. The *Shin-Ryuken* is completely ruined, but the "important" parts of it are salvageable. There are a great many pieces of salvage scattered amongst his small fleet and they're going to be put to good use. Some of the pirates technology is ingenious, making do with lesser tech and some of it is genuinely revolutionary. So they're taking their time picking through it, piece by piece, being very thorough. They'll have even more time on Moonbase Alpha, but there's not reason not to start now.

His eyes return to the video snippet, the moments of the *Melior*'s death, of Deckard True's death. The cockpit torn open, True's face defiant scowl, screaming at the world.

No neurohelm in sight.

--

Another pitcher smashes against the bulkhead wall, shattering into hundreds of shards of fine crystal. The hoarse scream that peters out as it tinkles to the ground has lost most of its venom and the dark quarters are still for a while. They're fully a ruin, tables upended, drawers pitched, countless valuable objects smashed. A few bottles of wine lie scattered about, occasionally dripping liquid that might still be in them. A light flickers, one that caught the edge of a table as it was being hurled. There's a heavy *whump* as someone hits the thick plush carpeted floor before everything returns to stillness.

"Fuck," says Concetta Amalfi, looking at the destruction she'd carved across her chambers. "I may have cared about him more than I thought."

She sighs heavily, not trying to collect her thoughts, but letting them fall in place. In situations like these, it was very easy to overthink the problem. It was also easy to overreact emotionally, which was why she liked to give herself time to scream, cry and destroy things. *Destroying things sounds good,* she thinks to herself.

"Yeah. I- *We* could do with some destruction." She hauls herself to her feet, pulling the robe up into something like modesty. On her comms, she calls an assistant. "Get me the lieutenants. Including the Red Banners ones. Actually, make sure they come in first. I have things to talk with them about."

--

Danny walks silently into the hanger, hands in his pockets, head canted down. In their distant corner the *Blackmech*'s tech cult concern themselves with its repairs and maintenance while other techs are coming off shift. Before one leaves, Danny makes him show him where the lifts are. And then he takes one up to the top of the *Melior*. There's not much to see from this angle, the top of the mech was quite thoroughly ruined by the *Mannequin*'s foot. He hops off onto the shoulders of the thing and peers into where the cockpit was. As expected, it's destruction is pretty complete, just a mess of parts, metal and wires. Then something occurs to him and he looks over to the tech cult.

Returning to the lift, he makes his way back down and over to them. 

"Lieutenant Black." The other man turns and salutes him, which he returns. "Got a job for you. Salvage-slash-forensics."

The other man's eyebrows shoot up. "Go oooon..."

Danny turns side on and points to the *Melior*'s cockpit, saying, "It's a mess, I know, but see if you can put together what that thing was using for a control scheme. Controls, OS, neurohelm type, anything and everything."

Lieutenant Black whistles. "That's going to be... interesting."

"Yeah. Think it's doable?"

"OS, definitely, some basic hints of what the controls were, maybe. Neurohelm and miscellaneous? I don't think we have scanners that fine after what the Ensign did to it."  

"Give it your best, no rush on the job either."

--

Long after they've dug out Jomura's squad and seen them off to medical, they volunteer to take the first batches of salvage back into space. Greer now *has* experience with the pirate drop ships, after all. That doesn't stop them from fidgeting in the pilot's chair, which eventually draws Renma's concern.

"Is there anything wrong?"

"Just my bones knitting back together. It fucking itches."

"Your... bones."

"Yeah. What, you think I can just bounce off a jet at dogfighting speeds and take *no* damage? I'm still meat. Viciously effective and sexy meat, but meat nonetheless."

"Mm." And Renma's tone is a bit more approving than normal. "Is there anything I can help with?"

"Unless you've got some high-protein snacks or booze lying around, nah." Greer settles themselves into the chair by virtually burrowing into it.

"Actually..." Renma reaches into his BDUs and pulls out a flask for which Greer stares at him, incredulous. "Commander Reid was handing these out after the battle. From his personal stash, he said."

"Fucking hell Jomura, I didn't think you had it in you."

"Greer dear, I have leapt out of a dropship to 'hit planes with my swords' with you, I think we can safely say this is all your fault. Besides which, I think after that mess we can be forgiven breaking some regulations."

Doing their absolute best to ignore that appelation, Greer cranks their head around to the darkening sky as the dropship breaches space. They hold out a hand for the flask, not trusting their voice and take a long pull from it. "*Ho*-damn, okay, Reid knows his shit, that's good stuff."

Renma takes his sip, managing to barely cough, and weathering Greer's teasing a little better. They make it back to the *Marlin*, docking their purloined dropship and leaving it and its cargo in the hands of the techs. They both have officer quarters, which isn't saying much on the *Marlin*'s corvette scale, but its better than bunks. Renma drops Greer off at their quarters when he hears something slithering and a *whap*, before looking down and finding his left wrist wrapped up by a belt. At which point he is nearly pulled off his feet back towards Greer's quarters. He catches himself on the doorframe and looks up at the operator.

"You know, generally speaking there's paperwork about this sort of thing."

"I think after that mess we can be forgiven breaking some regulations," growls Greer, not bothering to hide the blush crawling up their chest this time.

"Mm," and this time the approval is rich in Renma's tone. "Are you done... healing?"

Incredulously, Greer asks, "Do you really think you can slam into me as hard as an aerospace craft?"

Renma looks down at himself. "I appear to have left my armour on the surface, so I doubt it."

"And you're gonna be leaving those BDU's on my floor, soldier, now *get in here*-"

--

First Recond is back on Moonbase Alpha and Danny's enjoying a bia hoi in the rather more roomy Commodore's quarters on the base. It's still a space station so square footage is at a premium, but the fact that he can't do the splits and touch either of his walls is a marked improvement. The bed is a real bed as well, not a cot with extra cushioning. He's pretty sure every gets a bed around here, actually.

The knock comes quietly and he's not surprised to find Lieutenant Black there. He lets him in, offering him a beer, which the other man accepts. 

"You going to report or is this a social call, Lieutenant?"

The other man takes a big swig of beer. "You knew, didn't you?"

Danny's turn. "I knew *something* was strange. I had no evidence. And I suppose now we still don't have any evidence that-"

"-there was never a neurohelm installed in the *Melior*. We do, actually. Presumably the same shit OpSec that got you all the Pirates' CVI led to this, but we found the full schematics for the *Melior* in its drives."

"Damn. And-"

"And there's nothing about a neurohelm in there. In fact, the entire control scheme is... completely custom from the ground up."

Black takes out a tablet and projects some pictures from it against a wall. The pair of them watch as he flips through the schematics. Rather than the angled, twin throttle/joysticks of standard mechs, there appears to be gauntlets and greaves with internal grips and buttons, and a strange six degrees of swivelling chair. 

"There's no way this is as effective as a neurohelm, right?"

Danny doesn't have an answer to that. Theoretically, no. In reality? In reality they'd fought a man with no neurohelm who managed to drop two mechs before going down. 

--

Marshal Frederico Ayim slowly seats himself in the overly large command chair of the *Agrotera* and takes in the masses of information before him, flickering past on huge holoscreens. After almost a year of slow mobilization, the Colonial Defense Forces have developed into something of an actual military. He has eight = Commodores serving under him, commanding dispositions from small strike forces like Recon-In-Force, to huge logistics fleets, to the hardening battlelines of the Main Fleets. And now, as they take delivery of the first Planetary Assault Carriers, the two latest fleets are ready - Assault Fleets.

He'd been questioned about the naming choice and its appropriateness for a peacekeeping iniative. He'd informed Parliament he was quite done mincing words about the active warzone that the Rim had turned into and ordered two more to be put into production.

Looking down from the screens to his tablet, he reviews the latest intelligence from double agents and compromised spies. SecCorpInt was convinced that the CDF was going to start its campaign to take back the Rim by moving in from the secure boundaries of the Core. They thought Perimeter Station and its surrounding systems were the first targets. And it's not a bad assumption, based on the reinforcement requests they've been sending and forged acknowledgements that they've been leaking to SecCorp. Of course, SSD support has been much poorer than what was on those reports. On the other hand, they weren't attack from the Core, or securing a border.

This was a Corporate War and to win a Corporate War, you had to hit them in the profits.

--

It's the dead of night when Danny checks out a Ironsides V-SW from the mech pool and marches it out of an airlock. The mech's magnetic soles latch onto the outside of Moonbase Alpha and he walks the gunmetal grey mech across the vast black hull of the space station, a dully glimmering bug on a dark carapace that blots out stars. He continues his march until he's out of sight of the hangar. Then, verifying that he has atmosphere, he reaches up and disengages his neurohelm. Helmetless, he leans back in his chair, closes his eyes and tries to feel the mech through the controls. Without the neurohelm, every movement falls back on robotic defaults, making him feel stiff and awkward.

He gives that up and kills the defaults, but not before returning to a ready stance. Then he closes his eyes and tries to meditate, thinking back to when he was eighteen years old, still had a crush on Kamon and General Saelim was trying to beat the recklessness out of him with drills and meditation.

Ten minutes later, he dials the sensitivity all the way back up and opens his eyes. And tries to move.