+++
title = "Episode 30 Intro - The Red Curtain Falls"
description = ""
weight = 33
+++

Travis Liu is flipping through a comic he picked up from Sunnydown a few weeks back for the thirteenth time when his tug alerts him that they're almost at their destination. He barely glances up, but he does do his minimal crew the courtesy of kicking his feet off his piloting console. It's only seconds before they exit wormspace that he drops the comic into his pack and pays attention to his instruments. A brief glance at his and their salvage's systems to ensure everything's alright and then he focuses on the forward viewport.

Reality shatters into focus before them and for the most part, it's what they expect. System 452, or as its inhabitants call it, the Hyena's Graveyard was once an unsupposing little system, half-formed planets and asteroids circling a dim yellow star. Once upon a time, its only claim to fame, its only secret was the wreck of a Hauberi-Coronand Star Carrier. Now, its home to a small empire of cut-throats and rogues under Concetta Amalfi and has rather more activity.

Although... currently less than Liu is expecting. Security patrols ping them and they give the right answer, but as they're directed to the salvage rings Travis realizes what's missing.

*Oh, this is bad.*

There are still tons of pirate vessels, both homegrown and salvaged and their flotilla of Monitors grows ever larger. But there's a whole section of the salvage rings missing. It's bad enough that he starts chewing at a nail and remembering a deal he cut many months ago on Sunnydown. Too sweet a deal, to be let go and basically turned into a sleeper agent with no repercussions so long as he ratted "when he felt he had to." At the time, he thought his captors must have been nuts. Now, he wonders how they could have seen this coming. Before the tug and its massive haul get too deep into the Graveyard, Travis Liu makes his call and starts writing a message to be smuggled out of the system via drone reporting the disappearance of almost every single SecCorp ship the Blood Banners have salvaged.

He hopes it gets to Nicklenock in time.

--

Administrator Klaussen swallows at the assembled CDF fleet come for Perimeter Station. They’d been warned. They’d prepared, shifting two carrier groups, six of their new battlecruisers and scores of lighter ships into the system. That was *before* they’d mined the whole thing out beyond the safe jump points. But now, facing what the CDF had sent, he suddenly questions all of their intelligence. Both the intel and people’s brains. 

For one, it made rather a lot of sense that the CDF had a better grasp of what constituted “safe jumping distance” in the system, given their long tenancy of it. And also their copious, now obviously forged plans and briefings on the same subject found in the station’s systems.  

For another, SecCorpInt had a very different idea of what constituted “the majority of CDF forces” than what was arrayed against Perimeter Station. 

Because when a mere twelve destroyers burrow straight past their defences to pop up right next to Perimeter Station, he is in turn relieved and panicked. Relieved, because the Station itself could almost hold those numbers off. Panicked, because of the sheer depth of their intelligence failure. And it’s a panic that quickly turns to pants-shitting terror as he realizes the other problem with believing the CDF’s statements in their captured data.

That they wanted to recover their Station.

The destroyers blossom into spiralling flowers as every single torpedo and missile tube is emptied into the depths of space around Perimeter Station. And at the core or tip of every single projectile is a nuke. 

Their vanes extend as they attempt to exit into workspace, but the SecCorp fleet is opening fire. Not all of them will survive but in the first two minutes those twelve destroyers score a higher kill count for the CDF than it’s managed in the past year.

–-

She lets the fortified wine swirl heavily around in the heavy crystal goblet, as the camera settles on her. Across the system hundreds of compromised transmitters blare her message into the suddenly cramped confines of space.  Concetta Amalfi is in rare form tonight, pale skin overflowing from a dark bodice, red hair floating serenely behind her. It’s a show of obscene power, this variable, hyperfocused gravity, as obscene as what’s about to hit SecCorp Production Hub 212, aka Manichea.

“You know,” she begins, her voice a low purr, “All I really wanted to get together enough resources for my own little planet out in the middle of nowhere. Somewhere to rule with an iron fist, have my every whim waited on.

“He was the one who wanted to see the Sphere burn.”

A swig of the wine, well enough timed to pass through the overlapping gravity fields. And if a little hits the corner of her painted mouth, drips down her chin, why, that just adds to her image. 

“So, in a way, all of this is *your* fault, Recon-in-Force. You could have let well enough alone. Had your little war with SecCorp. Let *us* get on with getting out of here. Oh, I won’t pretend that it was going to be any time soon, but it was getting there. A few more years of escalating raids and then… poof! You’d have been… free.”

The last word is growled and something like anger and regret flashes across her face. “Idiocy.”

She finishes the wine, holds the goblet out for a refill and some dainty hand tilts a bottle in such a way that it glugs out its contents for Amalfi to angrily scoop up. “Though, maybe not all of the blame is yours. SecCorp can shoulder a bunch of it for leaving this bounty lying around. I can only take a sliver of credit for it of course. More their incompetence and poor security to leave crippled in space so much salvage and so very, very many… nukes.”

She smiles like a cat in cream and knocks back the thick ruby port, shattering the glass in her grip, her face flashing into a mask of rage.

“Banner up, boys and girls.”

And across the system hundreds of salvaged yellow, white and black SecCorp craft turn colours as Heraldry shifts their paint and IFF. And then the pirate ships start slamming out of wormspace, too close, dangerously close. Far. Too. Close.  


