+++
title = "Season 1 Epilogue - Where Were You When The Bombs Fell"
description = ""
weight = 34
+++

Catherine Elizabeth duMaurier takes up her position on the bridge of the *Kingfisher* for the first time since training flights. In an immediate sense, her brain is working overtime trying to pull old training to the forefront, training on how to command a ship. The CDF requires refresher courses for command staff, but they're not very good. In a more distant sense, she's trying to architect how she would manage a humanitarian effort for an irradiated planet.  

One of these things is her strength.

One of these is required immediately.

She's still trying to parse Concetta Amalfi's order ("Launch the nukes. All of them.") when the *Tethys* fires its main armaments at the frigate. Weapons designed to waste city sections and drop ships exactly like the Frigate have the epected effect. Finally, her training punches through her overactive mind and she issues the sane orders.

"All hands, prepare for nuclear surface combat and brace for impact!"

The first step in saving a planet is making sure you have enough people to start that.

--

As a pair of pirate heavy cruisers complete their pass on the sole SecCorp battlecruiser in the system, Marshall Ayim slumps back in his chair. Deprived of gravity and atmosphere, their nuclear payloads blossom into almost fractal, fungal forms, tearing the stentorian battlecruiser to pieces. Not for the first time, Frederico Ayim curses the disregard with which SecCorp approached their nuclear payloads. Before, it was just a blustering, effective threat. Now captured, those payloads represent an unconscionable possibility. One that he can see forming up with the Monitors. 

 Ayim sees a small fleet of former SecCorp support ships, all equipped with military-grade nuclear weapons move to take advantage of the Monitors overlapping fields of fire to bombard the surface of Manichea, of SecCorp Production Hub 212. He watches the last of the SecCorp planetary defense stations get hip-checked out of orbit by the excessive mass of a Monitor, its SecCorp escort woefully inadequate to the task of defending it from close assault. And he watches what should have been an overwhelming force of Planetary Assault Carriers, sub-capital ships and other craft descend inexorably to the surface of a doomed planet.

"I fucked up," he whispers to himself. *I didn't think she'd try to glass a garden world. I- I fucked up.*

Ayim can't pull the forces that are already descending back. But he can take the information from First Recon and equip them to succeed as best he can. So as CDF Assault Group 1 retreats from Manichea, it transmits information about atmostpheric dust, crust composition and whatever other information First Recon managed to suss out in their *insane* descent.

"Assault Group 1, come about. Prepare to extract from the system." Members of the bridge crew spin about, ready to argue with them, but the pale gravity of his face strips the fight from them. He knows that he's condemning a nearly a whole generation of recruits to nuclear wasteage and its written plain on his face. They don't have the heart to argue with the ghost of a man before them. 

Passing a sewn patch through his fingers, Frederico Ayim, Colonial Marshall of the Periphery, endures their fighting retreat. If the inhabitants of Manichea have more luck than God, they might survive. Arcologies aren't domes, but most human structures in the Star Era have bunkers proofed against nuclear bombardment somewhere in them. But that... that was a lot of nuclear warheads. So many, in fact, that getting a handle on their actual payloads is impossible at this distance. But if they're purely tactical and the spread is poor... the Manicheans might survive. 

He looks down at the patch in his hands. Those caught out in the open however... He slides the piece of fabric into his breast pocket. He'll hand the ceremonial patch off to Lieutenant Commander Fenwick along with her unit's. Recon-In-Force's newly-minted  owl and arrows symbol will have to be taken on by the next generation.  

"Next generation, ha." he mutters. *Saetang wasn't even thirty.*

--

It's a tiny thing, the shuttle carrying Concetta Amalfi away from the war above Manichea. It has what little they have been able to replicate from First Recon's stealth tech applied to it, but even their sensors can sometimes find it. Still, in the mad melee above and around them, its effective enough.

She plays a good part, casually sipping at wine as a world experiences an evolutionary reset of epochal proportions. If her actions factor into this, they don't play on her face. Indeed, her mind is pre-occupied with relocating her existing fleet, particularly the Hauberi-Coronand Star Carrier at the core of it. She could, and quite frankly, *will* flatten planets like this again, casting a firebreak between her and the CDF and Core. 

She didn't lie about just wanting a world of her own. She very much did not lie about that. The problem for the CDF and SecCorp was her dedication to it being *wholly* independent and under her control.  

In retrospect it made a lot of sense for the revoltionary Deckard True to fall in with Amalfi's rather more libertarian objectives.

--

"Thank you! Thank you so mu- whoop!" Sh'vakre Viable makes sure that her utterance is PG as security pulls her off stage. "Fellas, what's the deal? This is only the second performance of three and we've got audience engagement quotas to meet."

"Sorry Ms. Viable, but this isn't a drill."

Sh'vakre Viable looks up at the war very clearly happening above them. But as a performer in Arcology 1, none of that was her concern. Her contract specifically stated that she had to raise morale at a steady rate between now and third Quarter or face termination in a manner that would hamper her ability to find work hereafter. As Sh'vakre hadn't... ever really worked for anyone but Paramourant Productions, continuing a career thereafter was unlikely. Especially as Paramourant's contract went to great lengths to highlight that her greater endurance, vocal range and physical abilitiers were part of their Singer Competition Program, a volunteer program that absolved them of negative effects following a participants exit of that program.  

She looks up and sees the falling stars fired from warships and knows one way or another, that's when her life changes.

--

"FUCK YOU, THEN, YOU USELESS FUCKING SACK OF PROCEDURES!" screams Kendall as they slam the communicator into their desk in response to SecCorpMil denying them protection from incoming raiders. Moreover, their pre-emptive request for equipment that could be used to defend their more habitant-oriented Arcologies. Their paltry security forces were better suited to putting down non-existant colonial insurrections. And because no one in their right mind was going to throw an insurrection on Production Hub 212, their security forces were wholly unequal to the task before them.

Survival.

"Fuck it. Call a meeting with the supervisors of the fabrication stations. As many as you can get, if you can get through the jamming outside of this arcology. If the military won't give us the resources we need, we'll fucking build them our-"

"Uhh, Administrator?" An aide was looking up out the window. 

"What?" Kendall's voice is tinged with more than a little irritation. When no one answers, they raise their head. Their staff are at the huge bay windows looking up, and after a moment quelling spiking rage, they join them. And deflate a little. That many ships firing that many missiles... Kendall Incarnadine is a SecCorp Administrator and so has seen worst-case projections of nuclear war look like.

They find their voice. "Sound- sound the sirens. Get everyone into shelters. The bastards are dusting the planet."

--

Your name is Ram Saetang, Danny to your friends and compatriots. You are one of the most skilled pilots in the entirety Human Sphere. Unfortunately, there's not a whole of piloting that can save you from an out-of-control drop pod. And, quite frnakly, you need to concern yourself with staying conscious through the blood rushing every which way in your head. 

There's the matter of the dragon you're riding to deal with as well. It understands "helplessness," it just doesn't care. It's made of steel, carbon and hate and its respect for the meatsack that makes up *your* inner components ends where your usefulness to it does. So a solid chunk of your capability is spent holding it back, keeping its various limbs from tearing free of braces too soon. But you're fading and it's ascendant and its ascendance means the both of you are going to be paste across the face of Manichea.

"You're still going to be paste if you keep this passivity up, Danny-boy."

Your head would snap up if the G-forces weren't insane. It had to be a side effect of nearly blacking out. Your eyes try to find the comms but can't. 

"Square up. Shoulders back!" the voice barks and your body reflexively reacts. "Short, hard breaths, like a fucking flyboy, you know how."

You suck in and expel air at her commands.

"Now grab those sticks, take control of this beast and fucking do something about that nuke!"

It's like lightning in your veins, like bright circuitry to the Blackmech and the pair of you move to obey the command of Kamon Saelim.